<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting</h1>
<p>Minutes of the meeting held on Monday 5th February 2007 at the Wigan History 
  Shop</p>
<p>Present: </p>
<p>Joe Taylor (Billinge History/Heritage Society), Peter Guy (Gin Pit Village), 
  Emma Scott (Community Empowerment Programme), Peter Taylor &amp; Tom Price (Civic 
  Trust), Philip Butler, John Hesketh &amp; Michael Walker (Wigan Leisure &amp; 
  Culture Trust), Jason Kennedy (Conservation Officer), Peter Goodwin (Mirabilis 
  Media).</p>
<p>Apologies: </p>
<p>Glenys McClellan (Leigh FHS/Wigan Registry Office), Max Finney (Over 50s Forum), 
  Fred Holcroft (Winstanley), Barbara Rhodes (Aspull &amp; Heigh Historical Society), 
  John O'Neill (Wigan MBC), Ray Hutchinson (Wigan Parish Church), Tom Glover (Wigan 
  Archaeological Society), Carol Littler (Local History Researcher) Tony Hilton 
  (NW Catholic History Society, Friends of Wigan Boer War Memorial), Irene Nicholson 
  (Gin Pit Village) </p>
<p>Glenys McClellan wrote in to express her concern about the article on the Leigh 
  Journal about the possible centralizing of archive material in Manchester and 
  Cheshire, which can be seen a this link http://www.leighjournal.co.uk/mostpopular.var.1165731.0.digging_deep_to_save_our_heritage.php?s=s</p>
<p>Barbara Rhodes had sought clarification on structure of the Wigan Borough Partnership 
  and Heritage Network's place within that structure.</p>
<p>Townships/CEP approach to heritage 'visioning' report: </p>
<p>Emma Scott gave a detailed report on the Borough Wide Community Network meeting 
  at Leigh 17th January. Heritage was the main agenda item and a local history 
  quiz was used to start proceedings. A lot of information came out of the meeting 
  and contacts were made for future reference. To list the items of heritage significance 
  in each Township will take some time and resource. Possible funding assistance 
  needs to be looked at. Jason Kennedy (conservation officer) will develop the 
  criteria for Buildings of Local Importance and helping update this list will 
  be considered as a possible project for getting the community involved in heritage 
  matters. Civic Trust would be the obvious organisation to work in partnership 
  with. The next BWCN meeting will be held Tyldesley 27th February.</p>
<p>Funding Application Proposal:</p>
<p>Joe Taylor and Tsenno Vattev (cultural funding officer voluntary sector) have 
  met to discuss a funding application to enable the items of heritage significance 
  across the entire borough to be appropriately catalogued. It was thought that 
  a DVD component should be included and that Peter Goodwin should be approached 
  on this matter. Peter has worked with L&amp;CT before &amp; Billinge History 
  Society have equipment and production experience. </p>
<p>DVD component:</p>
<p>Peter Goodwin explained that the target group should be identified prior to 
  DVD production. Heritage across the entire borough is a huge topic and could 
  be the subject matter of one or for a number of separate DVDs. It was decided 
  that L&amp;CT should lead in the development of the funding application and 
  that the Education Department should be included in the DVD proposition from 
  the start. A meeting with the Education Department, Heritage Network, L&amp;CT 
  and Peter Goodwin will be arranged ASAP.</p>
<p></p>
<p><br>
  Building Conservation Strategy update:</p>
<p> Jason Kennedy updated the meeting with progress and it was suggested that 
  the Conservation Area files could be put up on the Heritage Network Website. 
  Jason is developing a Supplementary Planning Document regarding Buildings Of 
  Local Importance for the Local Development Framework and will speak to John 
  O'Neill, who had to miss this meeting due to domestic concerns, about this.</p>
<p>Any Other Business:</p>
<p>Philip Butler will draft a full-page article about Heritage Network for Past 
  Forward. John Hesketh has reserved an interest in the next edition of Borough 
  Life. Michael Walker will present a paper about Strengthened Partnership Arrangements 
  within the Heritage Vision at the next Cultural Partnership meeting on February 
  13th. This paper will propose the establishment of a Heritage Sub-Group of the 
  Cultural Partnership</p>
<p>Dates of future meetings:</p>
<p>Max Finney has requested an alternation in the dates of the Heritage Network 
  meetings, as he can't attend on Mondays. It was decided that future meetings 
  would be Friday 16th March, Monday 30th April, Friday 15th June, Monday 23rd 
  July, Friday 7th September, Monday 15th October and Friday 7th December. <br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
