<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
Wigan Borough Heritage Network AGM
<p>10.30am Friday 6th June 08 </p>
<p>Wigan History Shop</p>
<p>Minutes</p>
<p><br>
  Present - Joe Taylor (Chair, Billinge History &amp; Heritage Society), Norma 
  Ackers (Independent Local Historian), Lisa Beckett (Wigan Leisure and Culture 
  Trust), Clare Brennan (Over 50's Forum), Philip Butler (Wigan Leisure and Culture 
  Trust), Neil Forshaw (George Formby Society), Tom Glover (Wigan Archaeological 
  Society), Peter Guy (Gin Pit Village), John Hill (Wigan Leisure and Culture 
  Trust), Tony Hilton (NW Catholic History Society), Rev Ray Hutchinson (Wigan 
  Parish Church), Carol Littler (Local History Researcher), Denis Malley (Friends 
  of Wigan Heritage), Nigel Morley (Wigan Finescale Railway Modellers) John O'Neil 
  (Wigan Historian), Rachel Orme (Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust), Brian Parr 
  (Wigan Archaeological Society),Tom Price (Chair, Wigan Civic Trust), Emma Scott 
  (Community Empowerment Programme), Jack Topping (Hindley History Society) Zenno 
  Vattev (Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust)</p>
<p>Apologies - Anthony Grimshaw (Wigan Civic Trust), Margaret Hodge (Atherton 
  History Society), Geoff Jones (Astley Green Colliery Museum), David Lythgoe 
  (Friends Of Wigan Heritage), Gerry Marsden (George Formby Society), Glenys McLennan 
  (Leigh and District Family History Society), Barbara Rhodes (Aspull and Haigh 
  Heritage Society) Peter Taylor (Wigan Civic Trust), Mrs AJ Wilson (Leigh Antiques 
  and Collectables)</p>
<p>1.0. Welcome</p>
<p>1.1. Joe Taylor welcomed and thanked everyone for attending the meeting. </p>
<p>2.0. Apologies</p>
<p>2.1. Apologies were noted and recorded </p>
<p>3.0. Review of the last 12 months</p>
<p>3.1. Joe informed the group that the last 12 months had been a successful and 
  exciting time for the Heritage Network with projects / activities such as:</p>
<p>&middot; The heritage quizzes that took place in the Townships<br>
  &middot; The development of an Heritage Network web-site to store agendas and 
  minutes from meetings<br>
  &middot; The formation of excellent working relationships with WLCT (Wigan Leisure 
  and Culture Trust) the Council and Cultural Partnership that enabled strategic 
  links to the LSP<br>
  &middot; The production of a Wigan Dialect DVD for educational use featuring 
  world famous local linguist Richard Donald Lewis<br>
  &middot; The current development of Heritage Network DVD and resource pack for 
  schools</p>
<p>3.2. Rachel reiterated Joe's comments saying that she had worked with many 
  of the people that were around the table and praised them for all their hard 
  work and dedication to the Heritage cause. She also stated that she looked forward 
  to working with everyone again in the future. <br>
  <br>
  3.3. Tom Price thanked Emma Scott for her support whilst Joe was away in New 
  Zealand. He also expressed his sadness regarding the Community Empowerment Programme 
  not being able to support the Heritage Network any more. Tom thanked WLCT officers 
  John Hesketh and John Hill for their interim support. </p>
<p>4.0. AGM</p>
<p>4.1. John Hill explained the nomination process to those present and then the 
  current committee resigned. After the group completed the nomination forms, 
  John reported that the following people had been elected as Heritage Network 
  members. </p>
<p>&middot; Chair - John O' Neil<br>
  &middot; Vice Chair - Tom Price<br>
  &middot; Treasurer - Peter Guy<br>
  &middot; Secretary - Joe Taylor<br>
  &middot; Committee member - Peter Taylor<br>
  &middot; Committee member - Tom Glover<br>
  &middot; Committee member - Norma Ackers<br>
  &middot; Committee member - Nigel Morley</p>
<p>4.2. Joe thanked everyone for voting and encouraged the other people present 
  to continue attending future meetings. </p>
<p>5.0. Minutes from the last meeting on 14th April 08</p>
<p>5.1. The minutes were agreed as a correct record</p>
<p>6.0. Matters Arising</p>
<p>6.1. Joe made reference to point 5.1 from the last minutes regarding the HLF 
  (Heritage Lottery Fund) and explained that the Heritage Network was formed to 
  support the Borough's strategic objectives.</p>
<p>6.2. Ray expressed his concerns about Heritage not being mentioned much in 
  Wigan Borough's plans and how it didn't feature much in the LAA (Local Area 
  Agreement) priorities. </p>
<p>6.3. Joe explained that it was up to the network to make sure that it linked 
  into the LAA priorities. </p>
<p>Action: Heritage Network links to LAA as agenda item at the next meeting</p>
<p>6.4. Rachel reported that HLF were planning to create a funding officers post 
  and the person would be based at the History Shop. She went on to explain that 
  she didn't know the persons remit, but would find out and report back to the 
  group. </p>
<p>Action: Rachel to find out remit of HLF Funding Officers role and report back 
  to group</p>
<p>6.5. Zenno stated that it was important for the group to work in a strategic 
  manner. He also encouraged the group to consider funding options other than 
  the HLF.</p>
<p>6.6. Joe echoed Zenno's comments and explained that the HLF application process 
  is very complex. </p>
<p>6.7. John O'Neil stated that if the Heritage Strategy was re-visited, the Heritage 
  Network would have to be involved. He also said that all HLF bids should be 
  treated fairly even if each group had different aims and objectives. The group 
  agreed with John's comments. </p>
<p>6.8. Ray updated the group about the ongoing work of the archaeological society 
  at the Parish Church Rectory and reiterated the importance of the network and 
  the society working together in partnership. </p>
<p>6.9. Tom Glover and Brian Parr shared about the Roman Road dig in Ince. Both 
  said they were confident about finding the remains in the near future. Tom explained 
  that the Mesnes Park Boer War dig would start again soon.</p>
<p>6.10. Rachel reminded everyone that details about both digs were in the latest 
  edition of Past Forward. </p>
<p>6.11. Tom continued and explained that archaeological societies could now use 
  mini-diggers as long as they had relevant employer's liability insurance. He 
  said that the conditions in the insurance would only allow a maximum of 19 people 
  on site at one time. Tom explained that using the diggers made work much easier 
  for his group. </p>
<p>6.12. Peter Guy made reference to point 10.2 of last minutes regarding the 
  proposal of introducing a of &pound;6.00 annual membership fee to cover the 
  groups administration costs. </p>
<p>6.13. Joe suggested that the group vote about the issue. The group agreed and 
  voted against the proposal. </p>
<p>6.14. John Hill advised that the group should consider fundraising for the 
  future, to cover the groups running costs. </p>
<p>6.15. Tom Price mentioned that the &pound;6.00 membership fee could have been 
  used to buy the Fred Alcroft plaque. The group discussed the issue again with 
  the same outcome. Claire Brennan did however say that the group should look 
  at fundraising in the future. The group agreed. The conversation continued and 
  Joe Taylor said that he would pay for the plaque if the Community Empowerment 
  Programme were unable to do so. </p>
<p>Action: Joe Taylor said that he would purchase the Fred Alcroft plaque if the 
  Community Empowerment Programme were unable to do so. </p>
<p>7.0. The Way Forward</p>
<p>7.1. The group discussed the issue and agreed to carry on in the same manner 
  as previously. They all agreed that they would meet every six weeks at the History 
  Shop at10.30am on Mondays, but if required would be flexible to change days, 
  dependant on need and availability. </p>
<p>8.0. Members News</p>
<p>8.1. Jack Topping shared about Hindley History Society. He said that they had 
  50 members that concentrated on work in the Hindley area.</p>
<p>8.2. Tony Hilton reported that his group and the WLCT had agreed to site the 
  current remains of the Boer War Memorial at the Parsons Walk entrance of Mesnes 
  Park. </p>
<p>8.3. John O'Neil explained that he had retired as elected member and Deputy 
  Leader of the Council, but said that he was looking forward to working with 
  the network on heritage projects. </p>
<p>8.4. Emma Scott said that she was delighted with the choice of the Heritage 
  Network's new members. She reported that she could now bow out gracefully and 
  carry on with her consultation project for the Council. </p>
<p>8.5. Carol Littler stated that she was not representing a group, but said that 
  she would like to continue attending meetings as volunteer with an interest 
  in Heritage. </p>
<p>8.6. Denis Malley shared about the Friends of Wigan Heritage. He said that 
  his group had been informed with the Heritage Network since its conception and 
  that he was excited about the future of heritage in this borough. He went on 
  to say that the 'Friends' group are actively involved in the HLF History Shop 
  refurbishment project.</p>
<p>8.7. Nigel Morley explained about his group the Wigan Finescale Railway Modellers. 
  He reported that they currently meet in Billinge and that they do numerous exhibitions 
  and displays around the country. He said that 4000 people attended last December's 
  exhibition at Robin Park. Nigel praised the staff at Robin Park because they 
  were so helpful and always went the extra mile when assisting his group. Nigel 
  said that his group were currently looking for funding.<br>
  <br>
  8.8. Zenno offered to help Nigel and at this point, had to leave the meeting. 
  John Hill verbally passed Zenno's contact details to the group members. </p>
<p>8.9. Neil Forshaw shared about the George Formby Society. He said that he was 
  very pleased with the statue in the Grand Arcade and that his group were hoping 
  to hold a convention in Wigan in the very near future. </p>
<p>8.10. Clare Brennan praised the George Formby Society, who recently performed 
  at the Over 50's Forum, explaining that the performance was fantastic. She also 
  stated that George Formby and George Orwell were not celebrated enough in this 
  borough. Clare went on to explain about the work of the Over 50's and how they 
  organise / provide intergenerational activities and projects to address social 
  isolation issues and perceived barriers between the younger and older members 
  of this borough.</p>
<p>8.11. Tom Glover reported about Wigan Archaeological Society. He said that 
  that his group were confident of joining the dotted lines on the ancient Roman 
  map that show the road from Cockium to Manchester. Tom also reported about the 
  ongoing works at Wigan Rectory and how his group were planning to involve the 
  Deanery High School in the project. He also said that the Council's Planning 
  Department would also be involved in the process. </p>
<p>8.12. Norma Ackers explained that her group Leigh Local History Society had 
  not been active for the last 3 years due to the high cost of hiring meeting 
  venues. She said that she had recently spoken to her former group members about 
  putting their publications on the web - system. Norma said that the group had 
  not yet decided if this would happen. </p>
<p>8.13. Lisa Beckett explained her role as Head of Development and shared about 
  the projects she manages, such as the Cultural Partnership, the Wigan Joint 
  Service Centre and the HLF refurbishments at the History Shop. </p>
<p>8.14. Brian Parr praised Wigan Council and Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust 
  officers for all their help and support, especially Rachel Orme and the other 
  staff at the History Shop. </p>
<p><br>
  9.0. Any Other Business</p>
<p>9.1. Joe Taylor explained that the Heritage Network web-site needed re-housing 
  and said that a friend of his was willing to carry out the task. He then asked 
  the group for permission to re-house the web-site and the group agreed to his 
  proposal. Finally Joe closed the meeting and said that he looked forward to 
  the next one. </p>
<p>10.0. Time and date of next meeting to be arranged. </p>
<p></p>
<p>John Hill<br>
  June 08. <br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
