<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
<h1>Wigan Borough Environment &amp; Heritage Network Meeting</h1>
<p>10.30am Monday 24th November 2008</p>
<p>Wigan History Shop</p>
<p>Minutes</p>
<p>Present - John O'Neill (Chair, Greenheart Partnership Board) Joe Taylor (Billinge 
  History &amp; Heritage Society), Norma Ackers (Independent Local Historian), 
  Avis Freeman &amp; Dave Wilson (ETNA), Carol Littler (Local Historian), Neil 
  Forshaw (George Formby Society), Tom Glover (Wigan Archaeological Society), 
  Peter Taylor (Wigan Civic Trust), John Hill, Philip Butler &amp; Zenno Vattev 
  (Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust), Nigel Morley (Wigan Finescale Railway Modellers), 
  Peter Guy (Gin Pit Village), Clare Brennan (Over 50's), David Lythgoe (Friends 
  of Wigan Heritage), Richard Sivill (Atherton Heritage Society)</p>
<p><br>
  Apologies - Tom Price (Civic Trust), Ian Holdcroft, Glenys McLennan &amp; Margery 
  Harrop (Leigh and District Family History Society), Jackie Roberts, Vincent 
  France &amp; June Trumble (ETNA), Jason Kennedy (Wigan MBC), Brian Parr (Wigan 
  Archaeological Society), Rev Ray Hutchinson (Wigan Parish Church), Barbara Rhodes 
  (Aspull and Haigh Heritage Society), Peter Goodwin (Mirabilis Media), </p>
<p>1.0. Welcome and introductions</p>
<p>1.1. John O'Neill welcomed everyone to the meeting. </p>
<p>2.0. Apologies</p>
<p>2.1. Apologies were noted and recorded.</p>
<p>3.0. Heritage Network DVD and Resource Pack</p>
<p>3.1. Joe announced that the group had secured &pound;9k from Awards For All 
  to deliver a heritage project and that the funds had been deposited into the 
  Heritage Network Bank Account. </p>
<p>3.2. Zenno explained that the Network in partnership with Wigan Council Children 
  and Young People Services and Wigan leisure and Culture Trust, would frame a 
  new perspective on Wigan's past through the exploration of conservation areas, 
  buildings of local importance and frequently recounted stories particular to 
  different areas; the identification of neighbourhood icons, historical legacies 
  and the basis for community identity. When the film and complimentary resource 
  pack are produced, they would help teachers to bring elements of the Key Stage 
  3 Curriculum to life with links to citizenship, democracy, the environment, 
  human rights and leisure. </p>
<p>Zenno also reported that Abraham Guest, St John Fisher and Bedford High Schools 
  were interested parties and had identified around 30 children that were willing 
  to take part in the research and the interviewing of local people to record 
  stories of local importance. </p>
<p>3.3. John O'Neill stated that it was a very good project, but would need a 
  sub-group to deliver it properly.</p>
<p>3.4. John Hill stated that he and Zenno would not be in a position to lead 
  the project, but would offer project management and action planning support 
  to the steering group.</p>
<p>3.5. The group discussed the issue and agreed that a steering group made up 
  of members from the Heritage Network should meet in the New Year to draft an 
  action plan in agreement with the schools involved and any other relevant parties. 
  Joe Taylor and Clare Brennan agreed to serve on the group and those members 
  not present would also be offered the opportunity to become involved. Progress 
  to be reported at the next meeting. </p>
<p>4.0. Minutes of the last Meeting</p>
<p>4.1. The minutes of the previous meeting were reviewed and accepted as a true 
  and accurate record.</p>
<p>5.0. Matters Arising. </p>
<p>5.1. John O'Neill reported that Martin Kimber (Director of Environmental Services) 
  had offered to make a presentation on 'Heritage and Planning Process' to a future 
  meeting. Members agreed to invite Martin to the March meeting. </p>
<p>6.0. The Heritage Network Constitution</p>
<p>6.1. The chair raised the issue of what benefits membership of the network 
  brings to both individual and organisation members, which could then be included 
  with a promotional leaflet and also placed on the networks web-site. He invited 
  members to suggest additional benefits to those already contained in the constitution 
  and forward them to the secretary. </p>
<p>6.2. John O'Neill stated that the Heritage Network had been making good progress, 
  but could be more vigorous in its delivery and recruitment process. He believed 
  that the work of the network should be reported as a fixed item on the Township 
  Forum and links with schools. John said that he would contact Katherine Fairclough 
  (Service Director Business Transformation) to discuss the issue.</p>
<p>Action: John O'Neill to meet with Katherine Fairclough to discuss representation 
  of the network at Township Forums </p>
<p>7.0. Funding Issues. </p>
<p>7.1. Zenno Vattev updated the meeting about the changes to the Awards for All 
  scheme. He also said that some difficulties would arise for community organisations 
  trying to obtain funding from Heritage Lottery Fund because of funds being siphoned 
  off for the Olympic Games. Zenno offered his support to network members making 
  funding applications.</p>
<p>7.2. Joe said that he would post Zenno's details on the Heritage Network web-site.</p>
<p>Action: Joe Taylor to post Zenno's details on Heritage Network web-site</p>
<p>8.0 Past Forward:</p>
<p>8.1. John O'Neill reported that Past Forward was an excellent Heritage magazine 
  and to date it had been published 49 times. He stated that it was important 
  for group members to help promote that publication in order to secure its future 
  viability by submitting articles for publication.</p>
<p>8.2. Avis Freeman congratulated the Heritage Services on the magazine and explained 
  how she often sends copies to friends overseas.</p>
<p>9.0. Cultural Partnership Issues:</p>
<p>9.1. John Hill explained about the new make up of the Cultural Partnership 
  and how it would sit in the new EECH (Economy, Environment Culture and Housing) 
  partnership. He explained about how the Full Partnership and Executive Group 
  meetings would be run and how they would fit into the new strategic structures 
  in the borough. John also reported that he was currently in the process of trying 
  to form a Cultural Partnership Environmental sub-group similar to the Heritage 
  one. Finally he said that the next Executive Group meeting was on 1st December 
  at Leigh Indoor Sports Centre.</p>
<p>10.1. Members News:</p>
<p>10.1. Wigan Civic Trust - Peter Taylor reported that the October meeting was 
  well attended and that the Trust's AGM would take place in December. </p>
<p>10.2. Wigan Finescale Railway Modellers - Nigel Morley reminded the group about 
  the model railways exhibition on 13th and 14th December at Robin Park Arena. 
</p>
<p>10.3. Local History - Carol Littler reported on her work tracing borough-wide 
  war memorials.</p>
<p>10.4. Wigan Archaeological Society - Tom Glover updated about his groups four 
  ongoing projects. He mentioned that many of the terraced houses around the borough 
  were unique in terms of their architecture, because of the many examples of 
  stunning brickwork displayed in them. </p>
<p>10.5. Friends Of Wigan Heritage - David Lythgoe shared that the Friends group 
  had formed a committee to produce a newsletter. He explained that the group 
  were in need of volunteers to help with workshops etc.</p>
<p>10.6. Atherton Heritage Society - Richard Sivill explained that 100 people 
  were regularly attending his group's meeting. He said that it was his first 
  time at Heritage Network meeting and he had enjoyed it. Richard stated that 
  he would attend again in the future.</p>
<p>10.7. History Shop - Philip Butler reported that due to the renovations, family 
  history workshops would be restricted from January 09 and would be re-located 
  to the central library. He went on to say that the next Heritage Network meeting 
  could not be held at the History Shop and that he would look to identify alternative 
  venues with John Hill.</p>
<p>Action: John Hill and Philip Butler to look for alternative venues for future 
  meetings until the History Shop renovations are completed</p>
<p>10.8. Gin Pit Village - Peter Guy reported that he had been researching the 
  history of Gin Pit Village, but has not yet found much evidence from census 
  records about its founding.</p>
<p>10.9. ETNA - Avis Freeman passed on greetings from Allan Pearson, who founded 
  Leigh Civic Trust. She explained that efforts were still being made to prevent 
  Leigh Girls Grammar School from being demolished.</p>
<p>10.10. Dave Wilson conveyed his disappointment about ETNA not being currently 
  involved with the Greenheart Project. He explained that his group had previously 
  been involved and that he had documents to support his claim. The group discussed 
  the issue and agreed to offer support. They also stated that the issue would 
  be addressed at the next meeting when Joanne Harrop (Greenheart Project Manager 
  Environmental Services) had agreed to make a presentation on Greenheart, including 
  progress on the Bickershaw North site.</p>
<p>11.0. Time Date Next meeting - Monday 5th January 2009 - venue to be confirmed</p>
<p>Joe Taylor<br>
  November 08</p>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
