<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
Wigan Borough Heritage Network Meeting
<p>10.30am Monday 13th October 2008</p>
<p>Wigan History Shop</p>
<p>Minutes</p>
<p>Present - John O'Neill (Chair, Greenheart Partnership Board) Joe Taylor (Billinge 
  History &amp; Heritage Society), Norma Ackers (Independent Local Historian), 
  Margery Harrop (Leigh Family History Society), Avis Freeman, Jackie Roberts, 
  Vincent France &amp; June Trumble (ETNA), Carl Littler (Local Historian), Neil 
  Forshaw (George Formby Society), Tom Glover (Wigan Archaeological Society), 
  Tom Price &amp; Peter Taylor (Wigan Civic Trust), Jason Kennedy &amp; Steve 
  Thompson (Wigan MBC), Philip Butler (Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust), Nigel 
  Morley Wigan Finescale Railway Modellers, Geoff Jones (Red Rose Steam Society, 
  Astley Green Colliery Museum), Norman Redhead (Greater Manchester Archaeology 
  Unit) </p>
<p>Apologies - John Hill &amp; Zenno Vattev (Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust), 
  Brian Parr (Wigan Archaeological Society), Rev Ray Hutchinson (Wigan Parish 
  Church), Glenys McLennan (Leigh and District Family History Society), Barbara 
  Rhodes (Aspull and Haigh Heritage Society), Peter Goodwin (Mirabilis Media), 
  Peter Guy (Gin Pit Village), David Lythgoe (Friends of Wigan Heritage), Dave 
  Wilson (ETNA) </p>
<p>1.0. Welcome and introductions</p>
<p>1.1. John O'Neill welcomed everyone to the meeting. </p>
<p>2.0. Apologies</p>
<p>2.1. Apologies were noted and recorded.</p>
<p>3.0. Presentation about Wigan Borough's archaeological sites and the potential 
  for community involvement at the sites - Norman Redhead Director of the Greater 
  Manchester Archaeological Unit</p>
<p>3.1. Norman explained that he was based at Manchester University. He shared 
  information on the many archaeological sites in Greater Manchester such as Gin 
  Pit Village, Etherstone Hall, Moston Hall, Northenden Mill, Wythenshawe Hall, 
  Pell Hall Mote. Norman said that at these and many other sites, volunteers had 
  been able to get involved with excavations. He went on to say that as a result 
  of their involvement, some of the volunteers had gone on to further education 
  and some are now on degree level courses. </p>
<p>Norman also spoke about the importance of including schools in site visits 
  and open days to enable the learning experience on offer. Regarding Bickershaw, 
  he reported that most of the site had been stripped of value by past open-cast 
  mining, but stated that areas, such as Hurst Hall which is located near to a 
  housing estate at Bickershaw, could in the near future be utilised as a community 
  dig making it a point of interest that could feature on heritage trails and 
  information boards. </p>
<p>3.2. John O'Neill thanked Norman for his well received presentation and stated 
  that it gave all members present a broad spectrum of ideas for directly involving 
  local communities in various aspects of their heritage. </p>
<p>4.0. Minutes of the last Meeting</p>
<p>4.1. The minutes of the previous meeting were reviewed, discussed and accepted 
  as a true and accurate record.</p>
<p>5.0. Matters Arising. </p>
<p>5.1. John O'Neill reported that he had a very constructive meeting with Carole 
  Tyldesley (Heritage Services Manager) on 23 September and discussed the work 
  of the Heritage Sub-Group; how best to co-ordinate heritage issues with the 
  Council and its partners; relevance of the Local Development Framework to the 
  revision of the Heritage Strategy; significance of the Greenheart Regional Park; 
  contributing articles to Past Forward by member organisations and advertising 
  the network in that magazine; and the problem of a loan to finance a reprint 
  of 'The Billingers'. <br>
  <br>
  5.2. John also met Martin Kimber (Director Environmental Services) who agreed 
  that with immediate effect, the Heritage Network would be given prior notice 
  of any relevant development applications that needed its detailed consideration. 
  The news was well received by the group.</p>
<p>5.3. Steve Thompson (Principal Planning Officer Environmental Services) gave 
  a short presentation regarding the Wallgate Townscape Heritage Initiative that 
  was being funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund. He explained that the project 
  had the potential to make Wallgate an attractive gateway into the town centre. 
  Steve went on to say that Leigh and Ashton could also benefit from similar initiatives 
  in the future. </p>
<p>6.0. The Amalgamation of ETNA &amp; Heritage Network</p>
<p>6.1 Avis Freeman reported that ETNA had agreed to amalgamate with Heritage 
  Network. </p>
<p>6.2. Acting on behalf of the Wigan Borough Heritage Network, John O'Neill welcomed 
  the former ETNA members to the group.</p>
<p>7.0. Local Planning Process for Sites of Heritage Interest. </p>
<p>7.1. John O'Neill had already reported on progress with Martin Kimber and Steve 
  Thompson's presentation was noted. </p>
<p>7.2. John also reported that mapping points of heritage sites within the boundaries 
  of the Greenheart Project would be an important future exercise for the group 
  to undertake.</p>
<p>8.0 Cultural Partnership Issues: </p>
<p>8.1. Joe explained that John Hill had given apologies due to sick leave and 
  so this item could not be discussed. He went on to say that the Heritage Network 
  had two representatives on the Cultural Partnership, two on the Cultural Partnership 
  Heritage Sub-Group and two on Encompass. </p>
<p>8.2. Philip Butler stressed the importance of the Cultural Partnership Heritage 
  Sub-Group as a means of linking Heritage Network members to the Cultural Partnership 
  and beyond.</p>
<p>9.0. Members News: </p>
<p>9.1. Tom Price reported on the interesting presentation given to the Civic 
  Trust about the history of Wigan Infirmary. </p>
<p>9.2. Nigel Morley informed the meeting about the annual model railways exhibition 
  to be held on 13th and 14th December at Robin Park Arena. </p>
<p>9.3. Geoff Jones reported that planning permission was being sought to extend 
  the railway network at Astley Green Colliery. </p>
<p>9.4. Tom Glover spoke about the four ongoing projects currently being carried 
  out by the Archaeological Society and reported that the river Douglas would 
  in the near future be dammed at the bottom of Coppull Lane to act as a flood 
  prevention measure. Tom concluded by saying that the recent resistivity surveys 
  on Wigan Hall, prior to commencement, had not so far revealed evidence of a 
  moat.</p>
<p>9.5. Joe Taylor reported that Billinge History/Heritage Society had been working 
  hard to update the BLINT list and were very pleased with the work undertaken 
  by the Council's conservation officers relating to this matter. </p>
<p>10.0. Time and Date of Next Meeting</p>
<p> 10.30am Monday 24th November Wigan History Shop</p>
<p>Joe Taylor<br>
  October 08</p>
<p> </p>
<p><br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
