<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
Wigan Borough Heritage Network Monday 21st July 2008 at Wigan History Shop 
<p>Minutes</p>
<p>Present - John O'Neill (Chair, Greenheart Partnership Board) Joe Taylor (Billinge 
  History &amp; Heritage Society), Norma Ackers (Independent Local Historian), 
  Clare Brennan (Over 50's Forum), Neil Forshaw (George Formby Society), Tom Glover 
  (Wigan Archaeological Society), Peter Guy (Gin Pit Village), John Hill (Wigan 
  Leisure and Culture Trust), Tom Price (Chair, Wigan Civic Trust), Zenno Vattev 
  (Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust), Renata Marcondes (Language and Culture Student 
  Sao Paulo University), Louise Haigh (CVS), John Vare, Loraine King, Jason Kennedy 
  &amp; Matt Stockwell (Wigan MBC)</p>
<p>Apologies - Max Finney (Over 50's), Brian Parr (Wigan Archaeological Society), 
  Rev Ray Hutchinson (Wigan Parish Church), Carol Littler (Local History Researcher), 
  Philip Butler (Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust), Anthony Grimshaw (Wigan Civic 
  Trust), David Lythgoe (Friends Of Wigan Heritage), Gerry Maudsley (George Formby 
  Society), Glenys McLennan &amp; Margery Harrop (Leigh and District Family History 
  Society), Barbara Rhodes (Aspull and Haigh Heritage Society) Peter Taylor (Wigan 
  Civic Trust), Tony Hilton (NW Catholic History Society), Nigel Morley (Wigan 
  Finescale Railway Modellers)</p>
<p><br>
  1.0. Welcome</p>
<p>1.1. John O'Neill welcomed everyone to the meeting and stated that he would 
  keep to each agenda items allocated time slot. </p>
<p>2.0. Apologies</p>
<p>2.1. Apologies were noted and recorded</p>
<p>3.0. Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) Priority Area / Heritage Strategy Consultation 
  (Regeneration in the Borough) John Vare and Matt Stockwell (Economic Regeneration 
  Office)</p>
<p>3.1. John Vare gave a presentation following on from the one given at the recent 
  Heritage Sub-Group meeting, relating to the HLF's decision to make Wigan a priority 
  area and to designate a development officer to assist with funding applications. 
  He said that HLF were keen to help develop three major Heritage related funding 
  applications and would give support to any number of smaller initiatives from 
  organisations, groups or individuals. </p>
<p>John explained that this initiative would have a major impact on Wigan's Heritage 
  in the near future. He reported that there were several agencies operating within 
  the Local Governance Architecture that had a direct input into the Borough's 
  Heritage standing, including Environmental Services and WLCT. John concluded 
  by saying that there was a definite need for the effort to be co-ordinated. 
</p>
<p>3.2. John O'Neill said that he would approach the concerned agencies and ask 
  that a co-ordinated strategy be developed, possible via the Heritage Sub-Group. 
  He also expressed that there was a need for the Borough's Heritage Vision to 
  be re-visited and that the Heritage Network needed to be involved at all levels 
  with Heritage related matters throughout the Borough.</p>
<p>Action: John O'Neill to approach agencies concerned with Heritage issues and 
  ask that a co-ordinated strategy be developed via the Heritage Sub-Group. John 
  to report back at next meeting</p>
<p>3.3. John O'Neill noted that there was no clear lead on the proposed Heritage 
  consultancy. He suggested that a letter be sent to the heads of relevant departments 
  requesting a mechanism to develop the Borough's Culture and Heritage.</p>
<p>3.4. John Hill suggested that John O'Neill and Joe Taylor meet to discuss the 
  composition of the letter. He went on to say that he would write to those not 
  present at the meeting, regarding the priority of Heritage projects to be set 
  out in the new Heritage Strategy. </p>
<p>Action: John O'Neill and Joe Taylor to meet regarding information letter to 
  department heads. John Hill to send out consultation request to those not present 
  at meeting, regarding priority of Heritage projects for the new Heritage Strategy. 
  All to report back at next meeting</p>
<p>3.5. Jason Kennedy mentioned about the ongoing development of the Local Development 
  Framework (replacing the Borough's Unitary Development Plan) and the need to 
  bring key players together to discus the built environment and heritage aspects. 
</p>
<p>4.0. Minutes of the last Meeting.</p>
<p>4.1. A few minor changes to the minutes were suggested and Joe stated that 
  he would carry out this task. He also said that once this was done, the amended 
  version would be displayed again on the Wigan Heritage website. Otherwise the 
  group accepted the minutes as a true and accurate record.</p>
<p>5.0. Matters Arising. </p>
<p>5.1. None.</p>
<p>6.0. Heritage Network links to the Local Area Agreement LAA</p>
<p>6.1. John O'Neill explained that the (LAA) was a contractual agreement between 
  Central and Local Government to deliver the services required by the residents 
  of the Borough. He said that is was the function of the Local Strategic Partnership 
  (LSP), comprising of the local authority, the major services providers and the 
  community, to make the strategic decisions relating to this service delivery. 
  John said that Wigan LSP has four thematic partnerships, one of which concerns 
  issues relating to culture, the economy, the environment and housing. </p>
<p>He went on to say that there was also a Heritage Sub Group related to this 
  thematic partnership and that the Heritage Network had representation on the 
  Culture, Economy, Environmental and Housing thematic partnership and on the 
  Heritage Sub Group. John O'Neill requested that John Hill acquire the LAA Summary 
  Brief issued by Simon Dale earlier this year and forward it to Joe, to post 
  on the Heritage Network web-site. John agreed to carry out the task. </p>
<p>Action: John Hill acquire the LAA Summary Brief issued by Simon Dale earlier 
  this year and forward it to Joe to post on the Heritage Network web-site</p>
<p>7.0. Heritage Network links to Greenheart Project</p>
<p>7.1. John O'Neill informed the group about the project. He reported that it 
  was a vast regeneration project that would take 10-15 years to complete. John 
  said that it would have a major impact on the lives of those residing in the 
  properties adjoining it, which included some of the most deprived areas of the 
  Borough. He went on to say that It would become Greater Manchester's premier 
  Regional Park that would provide a diverse range of recreational facilities 
  and ecological habitats within a high quality countryside setting for the benefit 
  of all Wigan's residents and the wider area. </p>
<p>John stated that the project included within its boundaries, High Hall, Wigan 
  Flashes, the Bickershaw Country Park development, Leigh Sports Village, the 
  Three Sisters and Pennington Flash. He also said that other objectives included 
  in the Greenheart Project were to 'reflect and celebrate the Heritage and History 
  of the local area'. John also spoke about the need for a co-ordinated approach, 
  involving the people who live in and around the boundaries of the project and 
  that the Heritage Network could play a great part in that process.</p>
<p>7.2. Jason Kennedy asked if a Cultural Mapping exercise could be considered 
  for some time in the near future. John said that the issue could be discussed 
  at the next meeting.</p>
<p>Action: Cultural Mapping Exercise discussion relating the Greenheart project 
  to be agenda item at next meeting<br>
  <br>
  7.3. John O'Neill reported that Wigan Pier Theatre Company were applying for 
  funding relating to the inclusion of children in the Cultural aspects of their 
  work in the Leigh area. He said that this would be a good opportunity for the 
  communities in and around the Greenheart Project to get involved. John proposed 
  that the Heritage Network support the application. The group agreed to support 
  it.</p>
<p>8.0. Members News: </p>
<p>8.1. Tom Glover (Archaeology Society) reported on the dig at Wigan Hall site, 
  histori chome of the rectors of Wigan. He explained that a second resistivity 
  survey had produced interesting results and the site would require excavation. 
  Tom updated on his recent trip to a former coalmine in Belgium and shared about 
  former coalmines in Europe being converted into Heritage Centres. </p>
<p>8.2. Tom Price (Civic Trust) showed the group the memorial plaque for Fred 
  Ashcroft. He explained that it would be mounted in the History Shop after its 
  renovation and that he would take care of the plaque in the interim period. 
  Joe Taylor said that he would sort out the invoice. </p>
<p>Action: Joe Taylor to deal with payment issues relating to Fred Halcroft Plaque</p>
<p>8.3. Jason Kennedy (Conservation Officer) spoke about the Heritage White Paper 
  and about how it was the Council's duty to produce a record of the Borough's 
  heritage and that it would be a big job. He went on to update about the BLINT 
  (Buildings of Local Interest) list and said that it was still ongoing until 
  mid August this year. He reported that there would be an annual review of the 
  project after this date. </p>
<p>8.4. Neil Forshaw (George Formby Society) reported about the recent convention 
  at the Savoy Hotel in Blackpool and stated that the society was looking to hold 
  to hold a convention in Wigan next year. </p>
<p>8.5. Clare Brennan (Over 50's Forum) reported that an independent film producer, 
  Zara Hayes, who is interested in a project based on George Orwell's book, 'The 
  Road To Wigan Pier', had contacted her and that the Forum are working with her 
  to secure funding to create a film revisiting &quot;The Road&quot; and talking 
  to people from Wigan of today. It will be very positive and would be shown in 
  Europe as well as UK. It could have a massive impact for the perceived image 
  of Wigan.<br>
  <br>
  Zara is also looking for people who might have links to Orwell as well as personal 
  archive of the time. It is 70 years since the book was published and there still 
  might be people alive who have some connection to the author. Orwell's books 
  are available at http://etext.library.adelaide.edu.au/o/orwell/george/ in electronic 
  format, without charge, including his collected essays.</p>
<p><br>
  8.6. Loraine King (Wigan MBC) reported that the Pennington Conservation Area 
  draft report was out for consultation until the end of August and that she has 
  also had early talks with HLF about the restoration for Haigh Windmill. </p>
<p>8.7. Joe Taylor (Billinge History/Heritage Society) reported that Richard Donald 
  Lewis was to soon reprint the book' The Billingers'. He explained that his Society 
  had provided lots of photographs for the new edition. Joe shared that he had 
  recently spoken to Mr Lewis about the possibility of the Heritage Network publishing 
  and distributing the book on his behalf, so that the network could use the income 
  generated to become sustainable. Joe said that he plans to speak very soon with 
  the head of Councils Printing Department and will report back next meeting.</p>
<p>Action: Joe Taylor to meet with head of the Councils Print Section to discuss 
  costings on print of book. Issue to be discussed for consideration as agenda 
  item at next meeting </p>
<p>8.8. Other members present had nothing to report.</p>
<p>9.0. Any Other Business </p>
<p>9.1. John O'Neill shared about the success of the Wigan Borough in Bloom project. 
  He also shared about the restoration of the gardens at Haigh Hall and said that 
  they should be open to the public in August this year.</p>
<p>9.2. Zenno Vattev (Funding Officer Cultural Voluntary Sector) reminded everyone 
  that he was available to help anyone; individuals or groups, with funding applications 
  relating to Heritage projects.</p>
<p>9.3. Clare Brennan emphasised the wisdom of initially contacting Encompass 
  the Borough's peak community body, for anyone wishing to make contact with the 
  wider Wigan community. </p>
<p>10.0. Time date of next meeting Monday 1st September 2008 Venue to be arranged. 
</p>
<p><br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
