<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
Wigan Borough Heritage Network Meeting &amp; AGM
<p>10.30am Monday 22nd June 2009</p>
<p>Tudor House, Hindley </p>
<p><br>
  Present - John O'Neill (Greenheart Partnership Board); Joe Taylor (Billinge 
  History / Heritage Society); Tom Price &amp; Peter Taylor (Wigan Civic Trust); 
  Avis Freeman (Leigh Soroptimists); Dave Wilson, (Bickershaw Conservation Group); 
  Anthony Bishop (Leigh Ornithological Society); Geoff Jones (Astley Green Colliery 
  Museum); Jackie Roberts (E.T.N.A); Colin Ives (Transition Town Wigan); Peter 
  Goodwin (Mirabilis Media); Ken Barston (Stubshaw Cross Residents Group); Rachel 
  Orme (Wigan Leisure &amp; Culture Trust); Jason Kennedy (Wigan Council Planning)</p>
<p>Apologies - Glenys McClellan &amp; Margery Harrop (Leigh &amp; District Family 
  History Society); Jenny Tunney (WBC) Nigel Morley (Wigan Finescale Railway Modellers); 
  Richard Sivill (Atherton Heritage Society); Tom Glover (Wigan Archaeological 
  Society); David Smallcross &amp; Tony Bishop (Leigh Ornithological Society </p>
<p>John O'Neill welcomed those present, noted apologies and opened the meeting.</p>
<p>As Mike Mathews was unable to attend at short notice, Jason Kennedy, the conservation 
  officer, gave a short talk about Wigan's conservation areas, listed buildings 
  and those of local interest. </p>
<p>Throughout the borough, there are 750 listed buildings, eleven ancient monuments, 
  twenty-three conservation areas, thirty park gardens and cemeteries and about 
  1200 buildings &amp; structures of local interest. Planning has to deal with 
  about 150 planning applications on listed building each year. There are five 
  nationally listed buildings and forty-three locally listed buildings classified 
  as being at risk.</p>
<p>The conservation officer suggested that Council should be encouraged to develop 
  a corporate view regarding Heritage. It should be possible to establish a Heritage/Environment 
  record that could to be put up on the Council website. It would be useful to 
  evidence what chapels remain in the borough (over 100), where they are and when 
  they are open. These building are too valuable to the community to be demolished. 
</p>
<p>John O'Neill was will invite Dave Molyneux, deputy leader of Council and its 
  Heritage Champion, to a future network meeting and keep him informed on environment 
  and heritage issues.</p>
<p>Chair's Annual Report</p>
<p>The chair then gave a report on the preceding year's progress: membership has 
  expanded, attendance at meetings has been good, a number of informative speakers 
  have given presentations, representatives have regularly attended Partnership 
  and other meetings, ETNA has amalgamated with Heritage Network, we have been 
  consulted by WL&amp;CT regarding the History Shop renovations, visited the archaeology 
  dig at the Weind, helped expand heritage days, began production of two DVD's, 
  maintained the website, supported members groups and established relationships 
  with the Environmental Services Department. It had been a productive year and 
  every indication is that the network would continue to make progress. </p>
<p>Election of committee members:</p>
<p>As per the constitution, the serving committee members resigned and nominations 
  for the coming year considered.</p>
<p>It was moved by Geoff Jones and seconded by Avis Freeman that last year's committee 
  be re-elected - passed unanimously.</p>
<p>It was agreed that Joe Taylor and Colin Ives continue as the Network's reps 
  on Encompass.</p>
<p>Minutes of 2008 AGM: </p>
<p>Accurate and correct - Geoff Jones x Avis Freeman - passed</p>
<p>Matters arising:</p>
<p>Rachel Orme pointed out that although the HFL have not created a funding officer's 
  post, based at the History Shop, she was doing that job on their behalf. Groups 
  needing assistance with HFL applications should contact her.</p>
<p>Rachel reported that the History Shop renovations would be completed by April 
  2010 and invited the Network to hold its meeting there again.</p>
<p>Amendments to the constitution:</p>
<p>Due to the amalgamation of the former ETNA network with Heritage Network, a 
  sub-group consisting of the chair, vice-chair and secretary had met to draft 
  proposed amendments to the constitution that reflect the inclusion of groups 
  concerned with environmental issues. The proposed amendments, which had been 
  previously circulated for comment, included a change in name to Wigan Borough 
  Environment &amp; Heritage Network. </p>
<p>It was moved by Avis Freeman and seconded by Dave Wilson that the amended constitution, 
  as tabled, be accepted - passed unanimously.</p>
<p>The chair, vice-chair, secretary, treasurer and committee members present signed 
  off the new constitution. </p>
<p>Geoff Jones noted that care should be taken in the future to ensure that the 
  attention given to heritage was not diluted.</p>
<p>Environment &amp; Heritage Network Action Plan to 2011-12:</p>
<p>A sub-group consisting of the chair, vice-chair and secretary had met to draft 
  the Action Plan for 2009-10 but proposed that we plan ahead for three years, 
  up to 2011-12.</p>
<p>The draft Action Plan was tabled, discussed in detail and agreed with the addition 
  of two further action points, which included lobbying to raise the profile and 
  significance of the network across the borough.. The amended Action Plan will 
  be presented at the next meeting to establish responsibility for its delivery. 
</p>
<p>Update on the Greenheart Project:</p>
<p>Martin Purcell in now the greenheart program manager and he will be invited 
  to attend a Network meeting in the future. The project has now entered phase 
  two. Its website will go live and a strategy for community engagement to be 
  drafted shortly. The Bickershaw North part of the project is now also in phase 
  two. </p>
<p>Any other business:</p>
<p>The Cultural Partnership Convention will be held at St Peter's Hindley July 
  4 starting 9.30. </p>
<p>Tom Price expressed thanks to WL&amp;CT for the support they provide the Network. 
  He has met with Philip Butler regarding heritage open day in September and will 
  bring a list regarding the same to the next meeting.</p>
<p>Tom spoke about the memorial plaque commissioned by the Network and the need 
  to consider where in the History Shop to place it and others.</p>
<p>Next meeting:</p>
<p>Monday 3rd August Tudor House 10.30</p>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
