<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1>
<p>30th March 2009 Tudor House 10.30am
<p><br>
  Present - John O'Neill (Chair) (Greenheart Partnership Board); Tom Price (Vice 
  Chair) &amp; Peter Taylor (Wigan Civic Trust); Avis Freeman (Leigh Soroptimists); 
  Dave Wilson, (Bickershaw Conservation Group); Neil Forshaw (George Formby Society); 
  Tom Glover (Wigan Archaeological Society); Jackie Roberts (E.T.N.A); Richard 
  Sivil (Atherton Heritage Society); Anthony Bishop (Leigh Ornithological Society); 
  Carol Littler (Local Historian); Simon Martin (Lancs Local History Federation); 
  Ken Barston (Stubshaw Cross Residents Group); Andy Bond, Carol Tyldesley &amp; 
  John Hill (Wigan Leisure &amp;Culture Trust); Colin Ives (Transition Town Wigan); 
  Joe Taylor (Billinge History / Heritage Society); Glenys McClellan (Leigh &amp; 
  District Family History Society); Nigel Morley (Wigan Finescale Railway Modellers); 
</p>
<p>Apologies - Ray Hutchinson (Wigan Parish Church); Peter Goodwin (Mirabilis 
  Media); David Smallcross (Leigh Ornithological Society), David Lythgoe (Friends 
  of Wigan Heritage); Margaret Harrop (Leigh &amp; District Family History Society); 
  Geoff Jones (Astley Green Colliery Museum); Norma Ackers (Independent Local 
  Historian); Mike Scarisbrick Groundwork Wigan); Philip Butler, Rachel Orme and 
  Zenno Vattev (Wigan Leisure &amp; Culture Trust); </p>
<p>1.0. Mesnes Park Restoration Project:</p>
<p>1.1. Andy Bond gave a presentation and explained that there had been an ongoing 
  consultation process for three years now funded by HLF (Heritage Lottery Fund) 
  and stated that the first phase application had been submitted to the local 
  planning authority. He centred his presentation on the caf&eacute; pavilion, 
  the bandstand, the Dalton Steps, the Coalbrook Fountain, Pulham water feature, 
  the Powell Monument and also the lodge building which will eventually be developed 
  for community use and admin for the park. </p>
<p>Andy also informed that the park would be used as an educational facility for 
  key stage 1 and 2 primary school children and other relevant interest groups. 
  He said that the development process had enabled a strategy for all the parks 
  in the borough to be formed. Finally Andy answered questions that related to 
  the accessibility of Mesnes Park, parking issues in and around it and questions 
  about other parks in the borough. The chair thanked Andy for his excellent presentation.</p>
<p>2.0. Members News.</p>
<p>2.1. Joe reported that the previous meeting agreed for 'Members News' to be 
  pushed up the Agenda and given a 40 minute time slot. Everyone present shared 
  about their groups work and agreed that this was a worthwhile exercise because 
  it reinforced the contribution member groups and individuals make to the welfare 
  of the borough. It also allowed members to gain a broader insight into heritage 
  and environmental matters. The group agreed that this format would be repeated 
  periodically and Joe promised to circulate electronic versions of 'Members News' 
  update reports to everyone prior to each meeting.</p>
<p><br>
  3.0. Minutes of the last meeting - Agreed as true and accurate record</p>
<p>4.0. Matters Arising:</p>
<p>4.1. Tom Price commented about the continuing defacement of the town centre 
  mosaic. The Chair informed Tom of the measures that the Town Centre Manager 
  was undertaking to record damage by users. <br>
  <br>
  5.0. History Shop Workshop (Draft Layout Content):</p>
<p>5.1. Carole Tyldesley updated the meeting regarding the draft plans for the 
  new exhibition at the History Shop and noted comments. She also asked for 'Curating 
  in the Community' project applications to be forwarded to Heritage Services 
  before 17th April ready for the next board. Grants of up to &pound;2000 are 
  available to local organisations. Members were also reminded that articles are 
  welcomed for inclusion in Past Forward magazine together with information on 
  your societies and related activities. Advertisement space is available. </p>
<p>Feedback was given on the recent HLF awareness day, which was well attended 
  by many network representatives. Grants are available from &pound;3k to &pound;50k 
  for 'Your Heritage' projects and larger capital grants over &pound;50k are also 
  available. Wigan has been given 'Priority Area' status over the next 3 years 
  therefore the borough is able to benefit from increased funding for projects 
  which meet the HLF criteria, learning, participation and conservation. Don't 
  miss out on any of the above opportunities and talk to Carole or Rachel on Wigan 
  828128 for more details. <br>
  <br>
  6.0. Strategic Links Update:</p>
<p>6.1. Joe Taylor described the Local Strategic Partnership Structure (See appendix 
  1) indicating the links between it and the Heritage Network. </p>
<p>6.2. He also requested that the group nominate a second representative to assist 
  him at Encompass (the strategic body of the community network), of which Heritage 
  Network is a member. Colin Ives' nomination was accepted by the meeting. </p>
<p>6.3. John O'Neill stressed the importance of members becoming involved at a 
  more strategic level such as the Township Forums, so that Heritage matters become 
  ingrained into the governance structure of the borough. He said that Encompass 
  has been empowered to organise an electoral college for community representation 
  on the new community operational body ASCEND (Association for Social Community 
  and Environmental Network Development). Members were encouraged to attend the 
  next ASCEND meeting at Wigan Town Hall Wednesday 15th April.</p>
<p>7.0. Any Other Business:</p>
<p>7.1. John Hill reported that he would not be able to offer administration support 
  to Heritage Network after the next AGM to be held on 22nd June. He continued 
  and said that he and Zenno would support groups regarding capacity building 
  (skill building) and funding issues and finished by saying that he had thoroughly 
  enjoyed working alongside the network. </p>
<p>7.2. Joe stated that John's contribution to the Heritage Network had been substantial.</p>
<p>7.3. John O'Neill reported that Mark Champion (Lancashire Wildlife Trust) would 
  give a short presentation at the next meeting emphasising the importance of 
  community engagement.</p>
<p>7.4. Joe stated that the network should be renamed the 'Heritage &amp; Environment 
  Network' and this would be discussed at the AGM.</p>
<p>8.0. Time date of next meeting - 10.30am Monday 11th May, Tudor House</p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p><br>
</p>
<p><br>
</p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
