<html>
<head>
<title>Untitled Document</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
</head>

<body bgcolor="#FFFFFF" text="#000000">
<b>Wigan Borough Heritage Network </b>
<p><b>Minutes of the meeting held on Friday 16th March 2007 at the Wigan History 
  Shop</b></p>
<p><b>Present: </b></p>
<p>Joe Taylor (Billinge History/Heritage Society), Peter Guy (Gin Pit Village), 
  Emma Scott (Community <br>
  Empowerment Programme), Tom Price (Civic Trust), Philip Butler, John Hesketh 
  (L&amp;CT), Jason <br>
  Kennedy (Conservation Officer), David Heyes (Planning Department), Max Finney 
  (Over 50s Forum), <br>
  Glenys McClellan &amp; Margery Harrop (Leigh FHS/Wigan Registry Office), John 
  O'Neill (Wigan MBC),</p>
<p><b>Apologies: </b></p>
<p>Barbara Rhodes (Aspull &amp; Heigh Historical Society), Michael Walker (L&amp;CT), 
  Tom Glover (Wigan <br>
  Archaeological Society), Tony Haslam (Wigan Family &amp; LHS), Peter Taylor 
  (Civic Trust), Peter <br>
  Goodwin (Mirabilis Media), Ray Hutchinson (Wigan Parish Church), Fred Holcroft 
  (Winstanley),<br>
  Ray Hutchinson (Wigan Parish Church), Carol Littler (Local History Researcher) 
  Tony Hilton (NW <br>
  Catholic History Society, Friends of Wigan Boer War Memorial), Irene Nicholson 
  (Gin Pit Village) </p>
<p>Tom Price reported that Fred Holcroft's condition has relapsed somewhat - we 
  all wish him well and a <br>
  speedy recovery</p>
<p><b>Welcome:</b> David Heyes and Margery Harrop, attending Heritage Network 
  for the first time</p>
<p><b>Minutes of Last Meeting</b>: Accepted as true and accurate</p>
<p><b>Matters Arising</b>:</p>
<p>Philip Butler reported that an article concerning the Heritage Network for 
  Past Forward is well underway<br>
  <br>
  Glenys McClellan explained that after a meeting with the Director of Leisure, 
  when revised opening <br>
  hours had been announced, she had contact the newspapers to stop the publication 
  of her copy letter. <br>
  Unfortunately one newspaper had gone ahead and published it. The Leigh FHS had 
  sent letters of thanks <br>
  to the Director of Leisure, the MPs, Councillors and the Chief Executive in 
  acknowledgment of their <br>
  support.</p>
<p><br>
  <b>Conservation Officer: </b></p>
<p>Jason Kennedy reported that the new Borough Conservation Strategy would be 
  finished soon. The <br>
  Conservation Area Plan for Green Hill is now ready for approval by Cabinet. 
  He has had a meeting with <br>
  the diocese regarding Wigan Hall. In view of the demands made by the Olympic 
  Committee on Heritage <br>
  Lottery funding (figures?) there will be large cutbacks for heritage projects. 
</p>
<p><b>Address Manager: </b></p>
<p>David Heyes spoke about the constraints and demands faced by his department 
  in allocating names to <br>
  new streets eventuating from development. He circulated guidance notes and application 
  forms for <br>
  street names and postal addresses. The conservation officer, Jason Kennedy, 
  raised the issue of cast-iron <br>
  nameplates being replaced with aluminium nameplates in conservation areas. David 
  will liaise with <br>
  Jason over the possibility of policy improvements for a specific type of street 
  nameplate to be <br>
  recommended to for all new developments within conservation areas. David will 
  email the Heritage at <br>
  the same time he consults local councillors on new street names. The Heritage 
  Network then has 14 days <br>
  to raise any appropriate objections. All objections will be considered against 
  current policies and will <br>
  also require the submission of alternatives. Email or telephone is the preferred 
  method of objection. The <br>
  Heritage Network is free to submit street name proposals to the address manager 
  for any potential new <br>
  development where new street names have not been allocated.</p>
<p><b><br>
  Heritage Network Representation on Partnerships:</b></p>
<p>John Hesketh reported that &#150; as per the Chair's request of the week prior 
  to this meeting - he had spoken <br>
  with Lynn Kay (the Council's Partnership Support Officer) about the prospect 
  of Heritage Network <br>
  representation on thematic partnerships other than the Cultural Partnership. 
  She advised that while in <br>
  strategic terms good cases might be made for joining-up with the likes of the 
  Environment and <br>
  Development Partnership, currently community representatives were elected for 
  co-option through the <br>
  Borough-wide Community Network &#150; supported by the Community Empowerment 
  Programme. <br>
  After some discussion the Network agreed that - through CEP - they should write 
  to Wigan Borough <br>
  Partnership requesting a review of the procedure that enables representation 
  on the thematic <br>
  partnerships, making their case as to why they considered the present arrangements 
  unsatisfactory.</p>
<p><b>Progress with the Funding Application:</b></p>
<p>Joe reminded the group that after his initial conversation with Tsenno Vattev 
  (Cultural Voluntary Sector <br>
  Funding Officer) on the Network's aspirations to develop a DVD that would bring 
  local people's history <br>
  of the Borough to life, it had been agreed at the last meeting that links should 
  be established with the <br>
  Education Department in Children &amp; Young People's Services before proceeding. 
  If the DVD were to <br>
  succeed and impact, ensuring its curricular relevance was key he said. With 
  John Hesketh he would meet <br>
  Joyce Holden (Secondary Curriculum Consultant) on Tuesday 20th March and take 
  the funding strategy <br>
  and associated bids from there &#150; drawing on the advice and support of Tsenno 
  as required. </p>
<p>Max Finney noted his positive support for the project, but asked whether there 
  might be synergy/worth <br>
  in linking with the Over 50's Heritage Project - Our Legacy, documenting Township 
  histories across the <br>
  Borough through a digital archive of photographs, posters, postcards, press 
  cuttings, memorabilia, <br>
  personal diaries and so forth. Joe Taylor agreed to meet with him after the 
  meeting to discuss the same.</p>
<p><b>Townships/CEP Approach to Heritage Visioning: </b></p>
<p>Emma Scott coordinator for CEP, noted that the first meeting of the Borough 
  Wide Community Network <br>
  at Leigh had held a successful discussion around what heritage meant to local 
  people and the notes of <br>
  this were to be sent to Philip and Joe for their respective records.</p>
<p>Emma reported that the last BWCN meeting in Tyldesley was poorly attended and 
  that an appraisal of <br>
  whether this approach is working will take place after the next BWCN meeting 
  in Atherton. Heritage in <br>
  Tyldesley will now be discussed at the Tyldesley Community Planning Group at 
  their AGM on 12th <br>
  April. </p>
<p>If and when the Heritage Network funding application is successful, Glenys 
  and Margery might suggest <br>
  an appropriate organisation in Leigh to identify items of heritage significance.</p>
<p>Members Reports: The member organisations present gave brief updates as to 
  their current activities</p>
<p><b>Other Business</b>:</p>
<p>Glenys had a copy of the CD produced by Leigh Family History Society of St. 
  John's Abram <br>
  Monumental Inscriptions. This can be obtained from the Publications Officer, 
  Liverpool &amp; SW Lancs <br>
  FHS, 9 Manor Road, Lymm, WA13 0AY or by email:- publications@liverpool-genealogy.org.uk 
  <br>
  Price &pound;5.65. A hardback version will be presented to the Church and a 
  copy of the CD deposited at the <br>
  History Shop.</p>
<p></p>
<p><b>Next Meeting: </b> 11a.m. History Shop Moday 30th April</p>
</body>
</html>
