<html>
<head>
<title>Minutes</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1>
<p>held on Monday 8 May 2006 at Wigan History Shop</p>
<P><b>Present : </b>Joe Taylor (Billinge History &amp; Heritage Society),Pat Grimshaw
    (Leigh Family History Group), Irene Nicholson (Gin Pit Home Watch), Peter Guy (Gin Pit Home Watch / Borough Wide
    Community Network), John Wogan (Wigan Family History Society), Philip Butler (Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust /
    History shop), Michael Kennedy (Golborne History Society), Tom Glover (Wigan Archaeological Society), David Devine
    &amp; Ron Hunt (Wigan World), Marion &amp; Geoff Brown (Billinge History &amp; Heritage Society), Katy Crowson
    (Wigan &amp; Leigh Community Empowerment Programme). </p>
<P><b>Minutes taken by :</b> Sally Bowes (Student at Wigan &amp;Leigh Community Empowerment
    Programme). </p>
<P><b>Issues discussed were: </b></p>
<P><b>Village Green Status</b></p>
<P>Peter Guy informed the group that Gin Pit Village attained this status, which is similar but
    better that green belt status.
    <A href="http://www.eastsussex.gov.uk/community/townsvillages/villagegreens.htm">www.eastsussex.gov.uk/community/townsvillages/villagegreens.htm</A>.
</p>
<P>For an area with Village Green Status to be development, a similar sized area must be provided in the
    immediate vicinity to replace it. </p>
<P><b>Involving the community in decision making</b></p>
<P>Joe Taylor discussed that the government is pushing this. Philip Butler suggested that the local
    authority will involve the community and that heritage is under the auspices of Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust.
    Philip thought that this group may be used as a communications group to feed into the Wigan Leisure and Culture
    Trust, as part of the 10 year Heritage Plan </p>
<P><b>The Local Strategic Partnership </b></p>
<P>It was suggested that a member of this Heritage Network could be invited to sit on the
    Cultural strategic Partnership. Katy Crowson explained the Local Strategic Partnership, its composition and the role
    of the Community Empowerment Programme within it. </p>
<P>She suggested that people might benefit from attending an &lsquo;All Networks Meeting&rsquo;, to see
    what other groups are doing in the area and to contact her for details of the next one. </p>
<P>Information can be found at <A href="http://www.wiganvoices.com/"><SPAN
       >www.wiganvoices.com</SPAN></A> or by phoning 01942 514234 </p>
<P><b>Guest speakers at meetings</b></p>
<P>Michael Kennedy indicted that he would like contact details of guest speakers for Golborne
    History Society. John Wogan replied that his group sells a book that contains a list of speakers. </p>
<P><b>Funding and Constitutions</b></p>
<P>There was a discussion about funding for community groups. To qualify for funding a group must have a
    constitution and a bank account with at least 2 signatories. If any groups need information on this topic, there is
    a group&rsquo;s development worker at CVS called Louise Brown. She can be contacted on 01942 514234. </p>
<P>Pat Grimshaw added that she had received funding as a group for church gates in Ashton to be
    restored. </p>
<P><b>Insurance and liability</b></p>
<P>Tom Glover mentioned that it is difficult for their group to excavate, as the local authority
    requires the group to have &pound;5 million public liability insurance. Peter Guy suggested the British Trust for
    Conservation Organisation, which gives public liability up to this figure under Zurich . </p>
<P><b>Wigan Archaeological Society</b></p>
<P>Tom Glover explained how his group are in charge of the Monuments Register that is referred to
    by planning. Tom also discussed how the group have helped to restore the fountain at Mesnes Park by finding the ram
    pump </p>
<P>Heritage Mapping of Orrell &amp; Billinge</p>
<P>Joe Taylor showed the map of the heritage assets for the Orrell Ward, prepared for Karen May from
    Heritage Lottery, who has been working for Leisure and Culture Trust on this project. This is a pilot scheme and if
    it is successful it could be done throughout the Borough. </p>
<P>Joe explained that the problem in Billinge is that new houses are being built which are not in
    character with the village. Joe showed everyone a copy of the questionnaire sent to residents by their group to
    define the character of the village. From this information, a planning document to consider design will be included
    in the St Helens Local Development Framework. </p>
<P>He suggested that a long term strategy for this Heritage Network might be to map the points of
    Heritage Significance across he entire Borough and then, via the Culture Strategic Partnership, Leisure and Culture
    Trust and other municipal departments, to develop strategies to protect Heritage Assets via statutory
    regulation. </p>
<P>Type of group this may become and possible aims</p>
<P>It was suggested that the group could be used as an umbrella group, to bring together a broad
    range of groups that are concerned with heritage. This will be addressed further at the next meeting. Joe Taylor and
    Peter Guy will draft a set of Aims and Objectives for the group, to be considered at the next meeting. </p>
<P><b>Agenda for next meeting</b></p>
<P>It was agreed that this would be written by Joe Taylor and Peter Guy and will be sent to members via
    email before the meeting, for any suggestions. Lynn Kay, Partnership Support Officer for the Community Engagement
    Team will be invited to the next meeting to explain how the new Heritage Network might best fit into the structure
    of the Local Strategic Partnership. </p>
<P><b>Next meeting </b></p>
<P><b>Monday 12 th June at Wigan History shop 11 am .</b></p>
</body>
</html>
