<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1>
<p>10.30am Monday 1st September 2008</p>
<p>Wigan History Shop</p>
<p>Minutes</p>
<p>Present - John O'Neill (Chair, Greenheart Partnership Board) Joe Taylor (Billinge 
  History &amp; Heritage Society), Norma Ackers (Independent Local Historian), 
  Margery Harrop (Leigh Family History Society), Dave Wilson, Avis Freeman, Vincent 
  Price &amp; June Trumble (ETNA), Carl Littler (Local Historian), Neil Forshaw 
  (George Formby Society), Tom Glover (Wigan Archaeological Society), Peter Guy 
  (Gin Pit Village), David Lythgoe (Friend of Wigan Heritage), Tom Price &amp; 
  Peter Taylor (Wigan Civic Trust), Jason Kennedy (Wigan MBC), Philip Butler (Wigan 
  Leisure and Culture Trust)</p>
<p>Apologies - John Hill &amp; Zenno Vattev (Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust), 
  Brian Parr (Wigan Archaeological Society), Rev Ray Hutchinson (Wigan Parish 
  Church), Glenys McLennan (Leigh and District Family History Society), Barbara 
  Rhodes (Aspull and Haigh Heritage Society), Peter Goodwin (Mirabilis Media), 
  Nigel Morley Wigan Finescale Railway Modellers, Geoff Jones (Red Rose Steam 
  Society, Astley Green Colliery Museum)</p>
<p>1.0. Welcome and introductions</p>
<p>1.1. John O'Neill welcomed everyone to the meeting. </p>
<p>2.0. Apologies</p>
<p>2.1. Apologies were noted and recorded.</p>
<p>3.0. Wigan Heritage Strategy 2003 - 2007. </p>
<p>3.1. It was agreed that the Wigan Heritage Strategy document was out of date 
  and needed to be replaced with a new heritage strategy. Members were asked to 
  review the old document, particularly page 4, 23 and pages 32 - 37 and feedback 
  any comments or ideas to John Hill (WLCT) as soon as possible. </p>
<p>Action: Members to review Wigan Heritage Strategy 2003 - 2007, pages 4 - 23 
  and 32 - 37. Members to contact John Hill ASAP regarding any comments or ideas 
</p>
<p>4.0. Minutes of the last Meeting</p>
<p>4.1. The minutes of the previous meeting were reviewed, discussed and accepted 
  as a true and accurate record.</p>
<p></p>
<p>5.0. Matters Arising. </p>
<p>5.1. John O'Neill reported that Carole Tyldesley had been on leave and to date 
  had not met with her to discuss the possibility of developing a co-ordinated 
  strategy via the Heritage Sub-Group. He said that he would arrange to meet with 
  her when she returned and would report the findings at the next meeting. </p>
<p>Action: John O'Neill to meet with Carol Tyldesley to discuss the possibility 
  of developing a co-ordinated strategy via the Heritage Sub-Group. John to report 
  back at next meeting</p>
<p>6.0. The Amalgamation of ETNA &amp; Heritage Network</p>
<p>6.1. Avis Freeman, Dave Wilson, Vincent Price and June Trumble updated about 
  the amalgamation of the two Networks. They stated that ETNA, the Heritage Network 
  and four other community networks in the Borough did not fall under the seven 
  'social identities' criteria set by the LSP and Central Government. It was revealed 
  that these groups and any future groups that fell outside the social identities 
  would have to be self sufficient.</p>
<p>Finally they concluded by stating the decision to amalgamate was logical, because 
  ETNA and the Heritage Network had similar areas of overlapping interest, particularly 
  relating to the conservation of the natural environment. </p>
<p>6.2. Tom Price agreed with the concept. </p>
<p>6.3. Philip Butler stated that he welcomed diversification but questioned whether 
  the Heritage Network would be able to include all of ETNA's agenda. </p>
<p>6.4. Peter Guy thought that the amalgamation of the two networks made good 
  economic sense because it would be easier to find financial support for one 
  organisation, rather than two. </p>
<p>6.5. Joe Taylor expressed his concern regarding the Borough losing the capacity 
  and expertise of ETNA's key members if ETNA was disbanded.</p>
<p>6.6. The group agreed in principal that ETNA could be amalgamated into the 
  Heritage Network subject to approval at the next full ETNA meeting in two weeks. 
  Joe Taylor said that he would attend the meeting on behalf of Heritage Network.</p>
<p>Action: Joe Taylor to attend ETNA meeting and report findings at the next Wigan 
  Borough Heritage Network meeting</p>
<p>7.0. Archaeology Dig at the Children's Library </p>
<p>7.1. It was reported that several members of the Heritage Network visited the 
  site and were impressed by the knowledge and enthusiasm shown by the personnel 
  working there. Joe said that a superb article relating to the visit was published 
  in the Wigan Evening Post. </p>
<p>7.2. Tom Price said that he was impressed with the amount of information relayed 
  about the mediaeval findings. <br>
  <br>
  7.3. Tom Glover reported that a slab of stone uncovered at the Grand Arcade 
  site had been analysed and was highly likely to have come from Roman Wigan times 
  and in his opinion he believed that there could be a Roman quarry a short distance 
  north of the present Tesco site.</p>
<p>8.0 Leigh Girls' Grammar School </p>
<p>8.1. Avis Freeman reported at length about the struggle to preserve the building. 
  She explained that the conservation officer believed that it was the best unlisted 
  building in the Borough. Avis went on to say that planning permission had given 
  to demolish the former Girls' Grammar School and that the last remaining hope 
  to preserve it lay with English Heritage. She concluded by saying that English 
  Heritage would soon assess the building to determine whether it should be listed.</p>
<p>8.2. John O'Neil expressed that this unfortunate saga, underlined the importance 
  of the Heritage Network being involved in the planning process at an early stage. 
  He said that he would discuss this issue when he meets with Martin Kimber (Director 
  of Environmental Services) in the coming weeks.<br>
  <br>
  Action: John O'Neil to discuss Heritage Network being involved with planning 
  processes when he meets with Martin Kimber </p>
<p>9.0. Upcoming Events for 2009 </p>
<p>9.1. John O'Neill expressed his opinion on how the Heritage Network could spread 
  ideas about heritage and one example was by highlighting the Lancashire Day. 
  He circulated a paper about this topic to the group. </p>
<p>9.2. Vince Price echoed John's comments and explained about the prestige of 
  having 'Lancashire' displayed on boundary signs. </p>
<p>9.3. The group agreed that people in the Borough, including the group, did 
  not celebrate Local History Day as they should do and could do more to support 
  this. </p>
<p>9.4. Regarding the topic of open days for local heritage sites, Philip Butler 
  informed that the History Shop would hold a public tour at 10.15am on Saturday 
  13 September 08 and another one at Trencherfield Mill at 11.00am on Sunday 14 
  September 08. </p>
<p></p>
<p><br>
  10.0. Member Reports:</p>
<p>10.1. As time was pressing due to the long discussions on the previous agenda 
  items, the group agreed to keep this section of the meeting brief. </p>
<p>10.2. Carol Littler reported that the War Memorial at St John's Sandishgate 
  had been saved and placed in storage.</p>
<p>10.2. Margery Harrop inquired as to what length of time the History Shop would 
  be closed as a result of renovations. </p>
<p>10.3. Philip Butler explained that work would start on 25th December and was 
  expected to be completed by next Autumn.</p>
<p>10.4. Tom Glover stated that the Archaeology Society had uncovered a road in 
  Ince that was likely to be Roman. He also said that work at the Rectory site 
  was still ongoing and progressing well.</p>
<p>10.5. John thanked everyone again for attending and closed the meeting. </p>
<p>11.0. Time and Date of Next Meeting 10.30am Monday 13th October Wigan History 
  Shop</p>
<p><br>
  Joe Taylor<br>
  September 08</p>
<p> </p>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
