<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1>
1030 A.M. MONDAY 12TH JANUARY 2009<br>
BLUE COAT BUILDING<br>
MINUTES<br>
Present - John O'Neill (Chair) Greenheart Partnership Board; Tom Price (Vice Chair) 
Wigan Civic Trust; Peter Guy (Treasurer) Gin Pit Village; Avis Freeman (Leigh 
Soroptimists); Dave Wilson, Bickershaw Conservation Group; Lorraine King - Wigan 
Council - Carol Littler (Local Historian); Neil Forshaw - George<br>
Formby Society; Tom Glover - Wigan Archaeology Society; Clare Brennan Over 50's 
Forum; Vincent France E.T.N.A.; Richard Sivil - Atherton Heritage Society; Joan 
Disley - Leigh Ornithological Society; Jackie Roberts (E.T.N.A.); Margaret Harrop 
- Leigh &amp; District Family History Society; Glenys McClellan Leigh &amp; District 
Family History Society; Charlie Owen - Leigh Ornithological Society; Simon Martin 
- Lancs Local History Federation; Ken Barston Stubshaw Cross Residents Group; 
Geoff Jones - Astley Green Colliery Museum; Ray Hutchinson - Wigan Parish Church; 
Peter Goodwin - Mirabilis Media; Jason Kennedy - Wigan Council.<br>
Apologies - Joe Taylor (Secretary) Billinge History &amp; Heritage Society; Norma 
Ackers (Independent Local Historian); Peter Taylor - Wigan Civic Trust; John Hill, 
Philip Butler and Zenno Vattev - Wigan Leisure &amp; Culture Trust; David Shalltall.<br>
1.0 Welcome and Introductions.<br>
1.1 John O'Neill welcomed everyone to the meeting and thanked the Rector Ray Hutchinson 
for making the necessary arrangements and allowing the network the use of the 
Blue Coat building for its meetings whilst the History Shop was being restored.<br>
2.0 Apologies.<br>
2.1 Recorded as per list.<br>
3.0 Announcements<br>
3.1 The Chairman drew attention to various matters of heritage interest since 
the last meeting including local initiatives (public art; trails; Lancs Day; 50th 
edition of Past Forward; History Shop Heritage Service temporary transfer to Wigan 
Central Library etc).
<p>4.0 Greenheart and Bickershaw North - Presentation</p>
<p>Joanne Harrop - Project Manager for Greenheart described the vision for the 
  Regional Park Project which would, with its various partners transform a huge 
  area of past industrial dereliction into a diverse range of facilities and habitats 
  within a thriving countryside setting for the benefit of the Borough, the North 
  West region and beyond.<br>
  Joanne described how phase one of the development had been implemented including 
  habitat work, improvements to the Bridgewater Canal towpath, construction of 
  an access road and car park enabling work and improvements to the habitat within 
  the Bickershaw site, two phases of the Whelley Loop Line and a multi-user route.<br>
  She identified the key objectives for a successful delivery of the project and 
  described the five gateway sites (Wigan Flashes, Bickershaw Pennington Flash, 
  Haigh Hall and Amberswood) which would act as a filter destination for a significant 
  number of visitors. She outlined the development, to date, on the Bickershaw 
  North site which would form a country park within the regional park, stressed 
  the key role of partners and underlined the importance of local residents' involvement 
  and ownership of the project.<br>
  In response to members concerns about the level of public consultation, including 
  consideration of local expertise, Joanne said that effective ways of including 
  such contributions were currently under consideration and would be announced 
  shortly.<br>
  Additionally, Joanne offered to update the network at regular intervals as the 
  project progressed.<br>
</p>
<p>5.0 Heritage Network DVD and Resource Pack Project.<br>
  5.1 Peter Goodwin (Mirabilis Media) described his role in the project and emphasised 
  the need for the proposed steering group to meet in order to agree an action 
  plan in consultation with those schools that had agreed to become involved and 
  report progress to the next meeting.</p>
<p>6.0 Minutes of the 24th November meeting.<br>
  6.1 The minutes were approved.<br>
  7.0 Matters Arising<br>
  7.1. The Chairman reported that he had written to lan Harrison, Head of Neighbourhood 
  Services concerning Township Forum agendas and was awaiting a response.<br>
  8.0 Local History Day and Open Days 2009.</p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p><br>
  8.1 The Chairman suggested that local organisations might wish to consider organising 
  a local history day (national day Saturday 6th June) and/or open days (Sept) 
  in their localities (possibly in' association with local libraries) in order 
  to help promote interest in their work and possibly<br>
  encourage new members local schools. Ideas to be fed back to him/secretary and 
  a programme drawn up at the February Network meeting.</p>
<p> </p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p>9.0 BLINT (Buildings of Local Interest) survey update.</p>
<p><br>
  9.1 Jason Kennedy (Conservation &amp; Design Officer) - Indicated that over 
  1000 submissions had been assessed by a panel under his guidance which included 
  members of the Heritage Network. He outlined the criteria which submissions 
  had to meet and the various stages of the process. A leaflet had been produced 
  which would be sent to each address for those householders' views/approval of 
  their possible inclusion on the &quot;local list&quot;. Additional submissions 
  could be forwarded to Jason at anytime.<br>
</p>
<p><br>
</p>
<p></p>
<p>10.0 Members' News</p>
<p> <br>
  10.1 Members presented an interesting range of local activities being undertaken 
  by their societies.</p>
<p></p>
<p>11.0 Any Other Business - Nil.</p>
<p><br>
  Date of Next Meeting - Monday 16th February 2009 at 10.30 a.m. in the Blue Coat 
  Building.<br>
</p>
<p><br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
