<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1>
16th February 2009 Bluecoat School 10.30
<p><br>
  Present - John O'Neill (Chair) Greenheart Partnership Board; Tom Price (Vice 
  Chair) &amp; Peter Taylor Wigan Civic Trust; Avis Freeman (Leigh Soroptimists); 
  Dave Wilson, Bickershaw Conservation Group; Neil Forshaw - George Formby Society; 
  Tom Glover &amp; Brian Parr Wigan Archaeology Society; Vincent France &amp; 
  Jackie Robberts E.T.N.A.; Richard Sivil - Atherton Heritage Society; David Smallcross 
  &amp; Anthony Bishop Leigh Ornithological Society; Simon Martin - Lancs Local 
  History Federation; Ken Barston Stubshaw Cross Residents Group; Ray Hutchinson 
  Wigan Parish Church; Peter Goodwin - Mirabilis Media; Carol Tyldesley Heritage 
  Services WLTC; Colin Ives Transition Town Wigan.</p>
<p>Apologies - David Lythgoe Friends of Wigan Heritage; Clare Brennan Over 50's 
  Forum; Margaret Harrop &amp; Glenys McClellan - Leigh &amp; District Family 
  History Society; Carol Littler (Local Historian); Peter Guy (Treasurer) Gin 
  Pit Village; Geoff Jones - Astley Green Colliery Museum; Norma Ackers (Independent 
  Local Historian); Mike Scarisbrick Groundwork; John Hill, Philip Butler and 
  Rachel Orme - Wigan Leisure &amp; Culture Trust; </p>
<p>1.0. Announcements:</p>
<p>1.1. The chair made a number of announcements concerning heritage including 
  the following issues related to Wigan in Bloom: </p>
<p>&middot; It was suggested that members or member groups could adopt a monument, 
  use flowers to decorate it and 'put it on the map'. <br>
  &middot; Gateways into the Borough are being planted up, e.g. on the East Lancs 
  Road and the centre of Leigh is having a willow structure on the reservation. 
  <br>
  &middot; A chewing-gum machine will be used to clean up our streets. <br>
  &middot; Green Flag status has been awarded to Pennington Flash and Ashton Park. 
  <br>
  &middot; Work on Mesnes Park will commence in April </p>
<p>1.2. The Town Centre manager has responded about the defacing of the town centre 
  mosaic by fairground roundabouts etc. Interpretation boards will be erected 
  in Wigan and Leigh. They will cost in the region of &pound;5000 each if they 
  are to be vandal proof.</p>
<p>1.3. The Wigan &amp; Leigh Town Centre Trails booklets need updating. Anyone 
  able to help should contact the conservation officer or Mike Mathews, the town 
  centre manager. Carol Tyldesley (WL&amp;CT) is also able to help.</p>
<p>1.4. B&amp;Q are offering funding for heritage projects and the Coalfields 
  Regeneration Trust can offer funding of up to &pound;10,000.</p>
<p>2.0. Minutes of the last meeting - Agreed as true and accurate record.</p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p>3.0. Matters arising </p>
<p>3.1. Ian Harrison has responded in regards to items on the Township Forum agendas. 
  The next session of Township Forum meetings will have presentations about Wigan 
  in Bloom.</p>
<p>4.0. Heritage Network DVD &amp; Resource Pack:</p>
<p>4.1. Peter Goodwin explained how the sub-group had met with teachers at Abram 
  Guest School to ascertain how they and those pupils partaking in the project 
  wish to proceed. After much consideration, he suggested that two DVD's are produced 
  - one for the schools and a separate DVD concerning the heritage of Wigan Borough. 
  This course of action was agreed upon by the meeting. </p>
<p>5.0. Report on the Heritage Sub Group:</p>
<p>5.1. Carol Tyldesley reported that the Curating in the Community fund application 
  forms are now available. Grants of up to &pound;2000 are available to local 
  organisations. The heritage magazine, 'Past Forward' would like to have articles 
  submitted by interested groups and individuals. Tom Glover suggested that the 
  group invite someone from Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust to give a presentation 
  on the restoration of Mesnes Park which is due to commence in April this year.<br>
  Action: John O'Neill to arrange this. </p>
<p>6.0. Report on the Art &amp; Heritage Learning Centre:</p>
<p>6.1 Due to the current economic problems it looks as though this project will 
  be shelved for the time being. Some work will be done around the engine at Trencherfield 
  Mill. As a result, it looks likely that the Drumcroon building will continue 
  to be used. Avis Freeman inquired about the Heritage Map, now that work has 
  commenced on the History Shop. 21 pieces will be redisplayed in local schools 
  and community centres and it is hoped that the remaining ones will go on display 
  at Wigan Hospital. </p>
<p>7.0. Update on Greenheart Project:</p>
<p>7.1. The European Regeneration Funding agreement for this project has been 
  signed off. Funding has been obtained for a feasibility study on Wigan Flashes. 
  Initially, the focus will be on three sites. The first phase of the wetland 
  project has been finalised. Dave Wilson and Avis Freeman reported on a positive 
  meeting with the project coordinator to get local people involved at an early 
  stage. This is a very big project that will take many years to complete. It 
  might be advisable to bring in 'Friends Off' type groups for the various sections 
  of the project.</p>
<p>8.0. Update on Open Days 2009:</p>
<p>8.1. Tom Price reported that Civic Trust will publish a list of participating 
  buildings on its website www.heritageopendays.org.uk/contact It was suggested 
  that members get involved and try to get local buildings open at sometime during 
  the period 10th - 13th September inclusive.<br>
  Carol Tyldesley and Tom Price will be prominent on this issue. Members with 
  knowledge regarding participating local buildings are asked to inform the secretary 
  for circulation.</p>
<p>9.0. Report on Cultural Partnership Executive meeting:</p>
<p>9.1. The secretary reported that health and wellbeing via involvement in cultural 
  activities would be the theme for the Cultural Partnership Convention to be 
  held on 4th July. It was suggested at that meeting that efforts should be made 
  to bring in the wider community by asking for ideas regarding cultural events 
  and then assist in bringing these ideas into reality so that the public own 
  the projects rather that having projects created on their behalf. He asked if 
  anyone present would like to be involved in arranging this year's Cultural Partnership 
  Convention. Tom Glover indicated that he was willing.</p>
<p>10.0. Members News:</p>
<p>10.1 There was some discussion regarding this agenda item and the time it takes 
  to relate such news verbally. It was suggested that member organisations should 
  email in their news reports to assist with the logistics of recording and that 
  for the next meeting (March 30) members news will be the first item on the agenda.</p>
<p>11.0. Any Other Business:</p>
<p>11.1 Brian Parr requested that the planning department be approached regarding 
  regulations pertaining to development due to the archaeological importance of 
  sites situated in the Wigan area, now that it is becoming evident that Wigan 
  was of much greater importance on the development of Roman Britain than was 
  previously realised. <br>
  Action: John O'Neill will investigate on behalf of the network.</p>
<p>11.2. There is a full days programme (9.30 - 4.30) Feb 28th at Lowton Civic 
  Centre regarding Roman activity in northwest England. Interested people should 
  contact Diana Winterbotham 01204 707885.</p>
<p>11.3. Peter Guy has resigned as treasurer. It was agreed that the secretary 
  will perform this task until another treasurer emerges.</p>
<p>11.4. The Heritage Lottery Fund is holding an awareness day for organisations 
  wishing to qualifly for large grants on the 26th March. Inerested parties should 
  contact Carol Tyldesley at WL&amp;CT.</p>
<p>12.0. Time date of next meeting - 10.30am Monday 30th March, Tudor House, Hindley 
</p>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
