<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1><p>
10.30 a.m. June 18th 2012 at Tudor House, Hindley
<p>Present - John O'Neill (Greenheart Partnership Board), Richard Sivill (Atherton 
  Heritage), Huttson Lo (Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust), Mary Pennington (Wigan 
  Archaeology Society), Tom Price (Wigan Civic Trust), Avis Freeman (Leigh Soroptimists), 
  David Shallcross (Leigh Ornithological Society/Chowbent Chapel), Dave Wilson 
  (Bickershaw Conservation Group/Wigan Biodiversity Group), Neil Forshaw (George 
  Formby Society), Joe Taylor (Billinge History/Heritage Society), Ken Barston 
  (Stubshaw Cross Residents Group), (Leigh Family History Society), Vince French 
  (Atherton), Steve Higham (British Waterways)</p>
<p>Apologies - Jackie Roberts (Bridleways), Jan Johnston (LENDF), Peter Goodwin 
  (Tradition Films), John Hill (Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust), Peter Taylor 
  (Wigan Civic Trust), Tony Bishop Brain Parr (Discovery Group), Allan Roberts 
  (Wigan RSPB), Geoff Jones (Astley Green Colliery Museum), Glenys McClellan Marge 
  Harrop (Leigh Family History Society), Liz Vango-Smith (Lancashire Wildlife 
  Trust).</p>
<p>The Chair, welcomed everyone to the meeting.</p>
<p>Announcements</p>
<p>Carol Tyldesley has broken a leg and is likely to be off work for three months 
  or so.</p>
<p>Carol Littler (01695 625116) would like to be informed about war memorials 
  around the borough that are in need of attention</p>
<p>The latest grant available from Heritage Lottery Fund is called 'All Our Stories'. 
  The criterion is comparatively easy to comply with and applications can be made 
  online by July 31 via www.hlf.org.uk </p>
<p>Heritage Open Days are from 6th - 9th of September. Could anyone knowing about 
  participating buildings inform Tom Price at their earliest convenience.</p>
<p>The Greater Manchester Archaeology Unit have moved to Salford University and 
  have now produced booklet 5 in series about Greater Manchester's past. The latest 
  is called 'Slices Through Time' </p>
<p>Minutes of the last meeting: </p>
<p>As a visit to Pennington Flash 14th May took the place of the last meeting, 
  the minutes of the last formal meeting, 26th Match, were accepted as true and 
  accurate.</p>
<p>Matters Arising: <br>
  <br>
  Lancs Wildlife Trust hope to develop a friends group for the Kirkless Site. 
  John O'Neill went to the first meeting and Richard Sivill went to the second. 
  He has kindly agreed to assist with that site's heritage interpretation together 
  with WAS.</p>
<p>Members News and Reports:</p>
<p>The Cultural Partnership Convention took place on 20th May<br>
  The Cultural Olympiad Performance Reward Grants award winners came along to 
  report on progress.<br>
  Progress on the Wigan Youth Zone, modeled on the one in Bolton, was outlined 
  by Simon Baker, it's coordinator. Once established, we hope to develop links 
  and introduce to kids the many heritage and environmental assets on their doorsteps.</p>
<p>The Wigan Wallgate Townscape Heritage Initiative is progressing well and Grimes 
  Arcade is now under consideration to see if the blocked passageway can be re-opened. 
</p>
<p>The Cultural Partnership Sub Group met 17th May<br>
  John O'Neill reported on progress with the Capital Works Programme. <br>
  Huttson Lo (Wigan Leisure and Culture Trust), Avis Freeman (Leigh Soroptimists), 
  Dave Wilson (Bickershaw Conservation Group), Neil Forshaw (George Formby Society), 
  Steve Higham (British Waterways) and Richard Sivill (Atherton Heritage) gave 
  verbal reports on progress with their respective organizations.</p>
<p>Program For 2012 - 2015</p>
<p>At the next meeting, which also includes the AGM we should agree on the programme 
  for the next three years. </p>
<p>Suggestions from members unable to attend today's meeting are welcome.</p>
<p>It was suggested by members at this meeting that we: carry on with site visits 
  but have them between formal meetings; hold a Celebration Evening each year; 
  promote Lancashire Day; help with the War Memorial Project; promote Local History 
  Month; support the QR Code Reader concept and develop Heritage Walks.</p>
<p><br>
  Next Meeting: </p>
<p>The next meeting 30th July will incorporate the AGM.</p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
