<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1>
<p>10.30 a.m. August 8th 2016 at Museum of Wigan Life.
<p>Present:<br>
  Peter Fleetwood (Save Wigan), Peter Goodwin (Tradition Films), Mary Pennington
  (Wigan Archaeology Society), Avis Freeman (Leigh Soroptimists), Neil Forshaw 
  (George Formby Society), Glenys McClellan (Leigh Family History Society), Richard 
  Sivill (Atherton Heritage), Joe Taylor (Billinge History Society), Tom Price 
  (Civic Trust), Bob Bruce (Astley Green Colliery), David Shallcross (Leigh Ornithological 
  Society), Mandy Wellans-Bray (Billinge &amp; Orrell Transition Town). Guest 
  Speakers - Fiona Smith and Helen Rimmer</br>
<p>Apologies:<br>
  Peter Taylor (Civic Trust), Ken Barston (Stubshaw Cross Residents Group) John 
  O&#146;Neill (Greenheart),Lynda Jackson (Wigan MBC), Michael Caine, Dave Wilson 
  (Leigh Ornithological Society), Alex Miller (Wigan MBC), Eileen Walsh &amp; 
  Eileen Bithel (BETA)</p>
<p>Avis spoke about the tribute paid to the late Tony Ashcroft for his contribution 
  to the heritage of the borough.</p>
<p>Minutes of the last meeting: Accepted as a true record.</p>
<p>Matters Arising:</p>
<p>Avis expects we could visit Dam House in October. The cost would be &pound;10 
  per head. She hasn&#146;t yet written to Donna Hall as mentioned in the previous 
  minutes.</p>
<p>Fracking:</p>
<p>The majority of the meeting consisted of presentations on fracking by Fiona 
  Smith of Frack Free Wigan, Leigh and Makerfield and Helen Rimmer from Friends 
  of the Earth, then a general discussion on the topic.</p>
<p>It seemed obvious that it is important for individuals to inform themselves 
  on this topic, so research and discussion with others are essential.&nbsp;The 
  more people are talking about this subject across the community, the better. 
  There wasn&#146;t time to reach some kind of consensus on the subject or if 
  we wish to consider issuing a statement which sets out our position on fracking.&nbsp;That 
  would be something for us to discuss at some later date.</p>
<p>Mandy Wellans-Bray informed the meeting about the &#145;Incredible North&#146; 
  initiative that stems from the Incredible Edible project in Todmorden. It is 
  being backed by Council as Incredible Edible Wigan and will simplify the licensing 
  of council owned land for use by individuals and community groups for such things 
  as growing flowers or food, planing trees and erecting memorial benches. </p>
<p>There will be a launch event at St Peter&#146;s Pavilion August 31st from 9.30 
  - 12.00 and one at the Diggers Festival September 10th. Funding to assist develop 
  this project will be included in the next round of &#145;The Deal&#146;. </p>
<p>Members Reports:</p>
<p>Glenys:</p>
<p>Leigh Family History Society will restart their monthly meetings on 16th August 
  at 7.30 p.m. at the Derby Room of Leigh Library with an Open Evening aimed at 
  encouraging newcomers to start their family history research or anyone who has 
  come up against a &#145;brickwall&#146; in their<br>
  research.</p>
<p>The Society will also be attending the &#147;Leigh for All&#148; event at Leigh 
  Library on Saturday 10th September from 10.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. along with other 
  Societies from all over the Borough and a car rally. This will coincide with 
  the opening of various Heritage Buildings including the Town Hall and Parish 
  Church.</p>
<p>Tom Price:</p>
<p>Gareth Williams of Weston Park Shropshire, is coming to speak about Capability 
  Brown and his influences in the North West. Knowsley Hall has some of his work. 
  The Venue will be the Mercure Hotel, formerly the Oak Hotel at the end of Riverway, 
  opposite the old Central Park.<br>
  There is free parking at the Hotel and admission is also free but there will 
  be a voluntary collection for expenses. The Talk will start Monday 12th.September 
  at 2.30. Gareth Williams is Head of Learning at Weston Park and is familiar 
  with many Subjects on Heritage and Environmental Issues.</p>
<p>Alex</p>
<p>Regenerating Wigan Archives Project: The project to create new archives storage 
  and public access facilities has now been formally started with the HLF, with 
  a Project Board constituted to oversee the development phase of the project.</p>
<p>We will now spend the next 8-10 months creating a detailed second round application 
  to the HLF, giving full architectural plans, design proposals and with full 
  precise costs for realising the full ambitions of the project.</p>
<p>We would like network members to play an active part in the development phase, 
  particularly in public consultation exercises, but also in terms of fundraising 
  as we have to raise some monies to contribute towards the match funding percentage 
  asked by the HLF.</p>
<p>If all goes according to plan, the second round application will be submitted 
  around April 2017 with a decision in the autumn of 2017. Please contact Alex 
  if you would like to get involved in any way or would like more information. 
  You can also access the project website at: http://www.wigan.gov.uk/regenerationproject</p>
<p>Also a plug for the Leigh For All event on Saturday 10 September - all the 
  usual heritage activities on Leigh Civic Square. We're also still looking for 
  any groups interested in having a stall in the local and family history fair. 
  Any network members are very welcome to have a pitch - inside in the Derby Room, 
  no charge. Please contact Alex for more details.</p>
<p><br>
  Mary Pennington distributed the latest Archaeology Society newsletters. </p>
<p>Avis thanked everyone for attending and closed the meeting.</p>
<p>Next Meeting: 19th September Discovery Room</p>
<p></p>
<p><br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
