<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1><p>
10.30 a.m. March 12th 2018 at Museum of Wigan Life. <br>
Present: <br>
Peter Goodwin (Tradition Films), Derek Wilde (Wigan Family History Society), Mary 
Pennington (Wigan Archaeology Society), Avis Freeman (Leigh Soroptimists), Neil 
Forshaw (George Formby Society), Joe Taylor (Billinge History Society), Bryan 
Irving (Billinge &amp; Orrell Transition Town)<br>
Guest Speakers - Steve Thompson &amp; Chris Leather (Wigan MBC)<br>
Apologies:<br>
Richard Sivill (Atherton Heritage), Ken Barston (Stubshaw Cross Residents Group), 
Glenys McClellan (Leigh Family History Society), John O&#146;Neill (Greenheart), 
Bob Bruce (Lancashire Mining Museum), David Shallcross (Leigh Ornithological Society), 
Tom Price (Civic Trust), Peter Taylor (Civic Trust), Lynda Jackson (Wigan MBC), 
Alex Miller (Wigan MBC), Barney Francis (Peterloo Memorial Project).
<p>Steve Thompson &amp; Chris Leather, from Council&#146;s planning department, 
  informed the meeting on current progress with the updating of the guidance documents 
  now under way, then opened the floor to questions and comments from those present. 
</p>
<p>A long and detailed discussion took place, incorporating many planning related 
  issues, including health, air pollution, infrastructure, community energy, environment, 
  the BLINT list, access to officers, space for growing food, the naming of streets 
  on new developments and the role the Network might play in assisting Council 
  to fulfil its obligations within Greater Manchester.</p>
<p>Due to the large reduction in Local Authority funding by the current government, 
  it is important for community organisations to assist Council in any way possible 
  regarding the provision of services and its various commitments within Greater 
  Manchester.</p>
<p>Steve and Chris were invited to drop in on any future Network meetings, as 
  might be appropriate, for information swapping and mutual assistance. </p>
<p>Minutes of the last meeting were passed as true and accurate, then members 
  exchanged news about the recent work of their individual organisations.</p>
<p>Next Meeting 23rd April.<br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
