<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1><p>
10.30 a.m. April 23rd 2018 at Museum of Wigan Life. <br>
Present: <br>
Ken Barston (Stubshaw Cross Residents Group), Peter Goodwin (Tradition Films), 
Derek Wilde (Wigan Family History Society), Mary Pennington (Wigan Archaeology 
Society), Avis Freeman (Leigh Soroptimists), Neil Forshaw (George Formby Society), 
Joe Taylor (Billinge History Society), John O&#146;Neill (Greenheart), Guest Speaker 
- Lee Payne (Wigan MBC)<br>
Apologies:<br>
Bryan Irving (Billinge &amp; Orrell Transition Town), Richard Sivill (Atherton 
Heritage), Glenys McClellan (Leigh Family History Society), Bob Bruce (Lancashire 
Mining Museum), David Shallcross (Leigh Ornithological Society), Tom Price (Civic 
Trust), Peter Taylor (Civic Trust), Lynda Jackson (Wigan MBC), Alex Miller (Wigan 
MBC), 
<p>Lee Payne (Council&#146;s service manager for housing) is new in position. 
  He informed network members about his role within planning and his remit concerning 
  the municipality&#146;s 22,300 property housing stock, which is now no longer 
  managed by an &#145;arm&#146;s length&#146; entity but is back within direct 
  Council control. The old building programme is still ongoing. Emphasis is being 
  directed at &#145;specialist&#146; and &#145;appropriate&#146; housing - elderly, 
  autistic etc. Lee then opened the floor to questions and comments from those 
  present. </p>
<p>A long and detailed discussion took place, as per last month with Steve Thompson 
  &amp; Chris Leather, regarding issues relevant to the MBC&#146;s housing stock 
  the role the Network might play in assisting Lee to fulfil Council&#146;s obligations.</p>
<p>As with Steve and Chris at the last meeting, Lee was invited to drop in on 
  any future Network meetings for information swapping and mutual assistance. 
</p>
<p>Minutes of the last meeting were passed as true and accurate, then members 
  exchanged news about the recent work of their individual organisations. Most 
  relevant was that John O&#146;Neil will step down from his role as Network representative 
  on the Wallgate Townscape Heritage Initiative Partnership and we are invited 
  to nominate a replacement. Would anyone interested consider this and let the 
  Network secretary know prior to making a decision at the next meeting.</p>
<p>Neil and his friends played for the Queen&#146;s Birthday Party this year..</p>
<p>Avis will secure a congratulations card for Alex for securing the funding grant 
  to upgrade the Archives, to be signed by members at the next meeting.</p>
<p>Next meeting June 4th at Leigh Town Hall.</p>
<p><br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
