<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1>
<p><b>10.30 am March 2nd 2020 museum of Wigan Life</b>
<p><b>Present:</b>
  Bob Bruce (Astley Green Colliery),
  Peter Goodwin (Tradition Films),
  Neil Forshaw (George Formby Society),
  Avis Freeman (Leigh Soroptimists),
  Joe Taylor (Billinge History Society),
  John O'Neill (Greenheart),
  Mary Pennington (Wigan Archaeological Society),
  Ken Barston (Stubshaw Cross Residents group),
  Estelle Worthington (Friends of the Earth),
  Julie McKeirnan (Essay competition winner)

<p><b>Apologies:</b>
  Julie Clarke (Wigan MBC),
  Glenys McClellan (Leigh Family History Society),
  Alex Miller (WBC),
  Jenny Giggs (Wildlife Trust),
  David Shallcross (Leigh Ornithological Society),
  Richard Sivil (Atherton Heritage),
  Eileen Walsh and Eileen Bithell (BETA), 
  Tom Price (Civic Trust),
  Derek Wilde (Wigan Family History Society)
  
<p><b>Minutes of last meeting:</b> true and accurate

<p><b>Matters arising:</b> none
  
<p><b>Presentation:</b>
  Adrian D&#146;Arcy gave a presentation regarding Climate Change
  and the implications for Wigan Borough now that Council have declared a &#145;Climate 
  Emergency&#146;.<br><br>
  This presentation was so interesting to the members present, and raised so many
  questions and comments, that it took up almost all the meeting time available.<br>
  It was proposed that Adrian and the secretary attempt to arrange a series of meetings 
  for various groups and parties interested in the issue, as was suggested at the 
  last meeting. John O&#146;Neil voiced his opinion that the relevant officer, Paul 
  Barton, should be at those meetings. The secretary agreed to contact Paul Barton 
  ASAP.<br><br>
  Should they eventuate, these &#145;Climate&#146; meetings will be separate from
  normal E&amp;H Network meetings.

<p><b>Members Reports:</b> Not possible due to lack of time.<br>
Mary gave out copies of the latest Archaeology Society newsletters.

<p><b>Next Meeting:</b> to be arranged

</body>
</html>
