<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1>
<p><b>10.30 am March 3rd 2021 over Zoom</b></p>

<p><b>Present:</b><br>
Joe Taylor (JT) Billinge Historic Society<br>
Peter Taylor (PT) Wigan Civic Trust<br>
Lydia Helsby (LH) Wigan Civic Trust<br>
Adrian D’Arcy (AD) CRESS Eco Architecture<br>
Linda Graham (LG) Lowton West Residents/The Voice Lowton & Golborne<br>
Julie Hotchkiss (JH) Extinction Rebellion, Wigan<br>
Jim Latham (JL) Wigan Twinning Society<br>
Paul Lally (PL) Pete Shelley Memorial Campaign<br>
Paul Banks (PB) Pete Shelley Memorial Campaign<br>
Sally Smith (SS) Wigan Council Cultural Team, Business Manager<br>
Kerrell Walley (KW) Wigan Council Climate Change Manager<br>
Alan Woods, (AW) Extinction Rebellion<br>
Glenys McClellan (GM) Leigh Family History Society

<p><b>Apologies:</b><br>
Avis Freeman (AF) Leigh Soroptomists<br>
Richard McDonald (RM) Wigan Council Conservation Officer<br>
Julie Clark (JC) Wigan Community Officer<br>
Tony Bishop (TB) Leigh Ornithological Society<br>
Alex Miller (AM) Wigan MBC

<p><b>Minutes of last meeting:</b> Approved, proposed by Joe and seconded by Glenys

<p><b>Matters arising:</b> none

<p><b>Climate Change Update</b>
<p>Julie Hotchkiss reported that the country had now to start moving away from fossil heating
  and by 2023 all new houses being built had to have some form of renewable option.
  This would be electric and described three suggested ways of providing this electrical heating.
<p>She is wondering what the Council will be doing to encourage this change over by helping home owners.
<p>Julie also pointed out that there is a sustainable transport consultation at the moment for Greater Manchester
  and suggested that all buses should be electric.

<p><b>HS2 in Wigan Borough</b>
<p>Alan Woods from Extinction Rebellion gave a talk about the impact of HS2 especially in the Byrom Hall Woods area in Lowton.
  He has been in touch with other groups in the areas already affected by the HS2 line and pointed out how the public have
  been miss-sold on the merits of HS2.   
<p>Alan pointed out that the proposed cost had risen to £106 billion and the Wigan MP was now having second thoughts about
  the viability of the proposal, despite having previously encouraged the proposal.
<p>The lack of Government funds following the pandemic could be better spent on improving the existing infrastructure.
<p>Jim Latham pointed out that the present HS2 would be connected to the West Coast Main line into places rather than needing
  to be joined just south of Wigan.
<p>Linda Graham pointed out that she had contacted all the local resident groups in the area and had written to the Transport Minister.
<p>Linda also pointed out that this spur not only affected the Byrom Hall Wood but property and open spaces in Lowton St. Mary’s area as well.
<p>Alan said that he was in touch with other Northern and National groups of Extinction Rebellion who could provide materials to help
  publicise the proposed spur.

<p><b>Climate Change Borough Update</b>
<p>Kerrell Walley gave an update of the programme for action on climate change proposed for the Borough over the next five years
  that would be reported to Cabinet soon. 6 different climate action themes introduced within the Outline Climate Change Strategy
  will each have a separate action plan that will frame delivery of measures over the next 5 years both internally within the Council
  and externally with residents, communities and businesses.
  <a href="https://www.wigan.gov.uk/Council/Strategies-Plans-and-Policies/Climate-change-and-sustainability.aspx">
    The climate change strategy webpage on the Council website</a> has now been updated

<p>She hoped that this year there could be more public consultation with events, either virtually or face-to-face to mark the anniversary
  of the start of these plans in July.
<p>Glenys suggested that this could be included in the proposed Leigh Festival to take place in early August.
<p><b>Pete Shelley Memorial Campaign</b>
Paul Lally gave a presentation about the formation of this group following Pete Shelley’s death in December 2018.
  Pete was born in Leigh and worked in IT at the NCB before becoming a worldwide name as a member of the Buzzcocks.
<p>The group have permission from his family to gain recognition of his name and already a blue plaque has been placed on his home in Landside, Leigh.
  They are promoting a memorial foundation to provide funding  support especially for young people of the area to be more creative.
  They have already raised £13,500 by holding live sell-out events with people attending from all over the country.
  Funding has also been raised by a record company and merchandise provided by a French company.
<p>Glenys questioned if he was included in the new exhibition area at the Town Hall and this was confirmed by Sally.

<p><b>Cultural Team Manifest</b>
<p>Sally explained that the Cultural Team have a five year plan for culture across the Borough and in 2023 the theme will be ‘New Heritage’.
  She would like to have a meeting with to update on what is going on around the Borough.
<p>This year’s theme is Health & Happiness which will be included in the proposed Leigh Festival in early August.
<p><b>Date of Next Meetings</b>
<p>Due to the Bank Holidays in April and May the next two meetings will be on the second Mondays of these months.
<p>12th April 2021 10.30 a.m.<br>
  10th May 2021 10.30 a.m.

</body>
</html>
