<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>

<h1>Meeting minutes</h1>

<p><b>10.30 a.m. 12 th July 2021 over Zoom</b></p>

<p><b>Present:</b><br>
Avis Freeman (AV) Leigh Soroptimists<br>
Joe Taylor (JT) Billinge Historic Society<br>
Neil Forshaw (NF) George Formby Society<br>
Julie Clarke (JC) Wigan Council Communities Officer<br>
Kerrell Walley (KW) Wigan Council Climate Change Manager<br>
Tony Bishop (TB) Leigh Ornithological Society<br>
Adrian D’Arcy (AD) CRESS Eco Architecture<br>
Glenys McClellan (GM) Leigh Family History Society

<p><b>Apologies for absence:</b><br>
Linda Graham (LG) Lowton West Residents/The Voice Lowton & Golborne<br>
Peter Taylor (PT) Wigan Civic Trust

<p><b>Minutes of the last meeting:</b> approved as correct

<p><b>Matters arising:</b> none

<h2>Climate change</h2>
<ul>
<li>First 2 of 6 Climate Action Plans named Our Adaptation & Resilience Action Plan and Our Air Quality & Transport Action Plan have been approved by Cabinet and will be available for public release soon – I will share the link once on the website 
<li>A Climate Response Team has now been formed at the Council, comprising Kerrell Walley as the Climate Change Manager and an Environmental Education Officer jobshared between 2 officers. The Council will soon be advertising for 3 brand new roles to join the team 
<li>The 1st Annual Progress Report on the Climate Crisis has started it’s journey through the relevant scrutiny boards within the Council. The report will be viewed at Cabinet in September, subject to approval by all other boards and is anticipated to be released to the public in Autumn. The report will be a yearly release 
<li>The Council’s Big Listening Festival focusses on Climate Change this week. The Council have several digital events taking place including 2 engagement sessions – the link has been shared with the Network 
</ul>
<p>Tony Bishop asked Kerrell about the effects on climate of the major developments planned along the Atherleigh Way area.  Kerrell was unable to comment on planning and suggested that she would invite a Planning Officer to attend the next meeting.

<p>Kerrell also explained that she was in the early stages of suggesting a Climate Change Coalition of critical friends to the local authority.  The Network all agreed that the Network should be involved in this in the future.

<h2>Community Officer’s Report</h2>
<p>Julie Clarke reported that the Community Recovery Fund had now re-opened for Community groups to apply for funding.

<p>The Community Team are also supporting the In Bloom entrants and judging dates are set for August.

<p>The team have also been involved in the Big Listening Project on community safety.

<p>A crowd funding offer for Community Groups has been launched and help is available by the staff for any Community Group that are compiling a bid.

<h2>Byrom Hall Wood – report sent by Linda Graham</h2>
<p> (1) We were contacted via our Byrom Hall Wood Facebook page by Isaac Kenyon of Pedal4Parks.  He and a group of cyclists were cycling from John 'Groats to Land’s End, on the way visiting green spaces - some National Parks, some smaller spaces.  He asked if I would be prepared to do a filmed interview on the effect of HS2 on Byrom Hall Wood.  They were only doing 25 interviews throughout the entire journey. I agreed but asked that the current MP - James Grundy - also be invited as he has consistently opposed the Spur since 2013.

<p>The visit took place around lunchtime on the 25th June, a wet and gloomy day and was well attended by supporters.  Isaac was refused permission by Forestry England to do the interview on the actual Wood itself, so we had to be filmed in an adjacent farmer's field!

<p>The interview may form part of a documentary produced by Isaac, to be shown on Amazon Prime.

<p>(2) Separately, Extinction Rebellion were at Golborne and Lowton last weekend, but as they entered the Wood from behind the Rothwell's Farm estate, we were not aware of their presence.  A neighbour bumped into them by chance, but Alan Wood has been in touch with me since then.

<p>(3) A HS2 community event took place on Friday 9th July at Culcheth Sports Club - there is no public transport to Culcheth from Lowton!!  Tickets had to be booked in advance (Covid) and numbers were limited.  We went for 5.30 but we arrived at 5.15 and were ushered in.  We were the only people there for about 10 mins until another two people arrived.  The employee we spoke to - when talking about moving utilities- showed us a picture of an extremely deep trench (around 15' I believe) for deep gas pipes.  'It won't be as bad for you' he said - not realising that we would experience exactly the same need to relocate the deep gas main!  This up to 100m corridor - though he stressed it would be unlikely they will need the full width) will be a separate excavation from the erection if the high embankment (50m wide corridor).  The Wood will effectively be decimated, including many old oak trees.  We collected some copies of the latest map book for our area.

<h2>George Formby Society</h2>
<p>Neil Forshaw reported that although they had not been any events, the Society was hoping to hold their convention in September.  He also announced that the Newton-le-Willows Town Show is planned for 7th August with fewer stalls than usual.

<h2>Greenslate Farm</h2>
<p>Joe reported that the memorial garden funded by this group at Greenslate Farm was looking beautiful.  The Greenslate Farm has now re-opened.

<h2>Leigh Ornithological Society</h2>
<p>Tony reported that there had been no site or field visits.  The Friday night presentations had still not restarted at the Leigh Library.  However, the 50th Anniversary Celebrations are still planned for 9th October 2021 from 10.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m. at Leigh Library.  There will be several organisations and dignitaries attending.

<p>The group are also planning to sow seeds in Lilford Park to create the Wildlife Meadow.

<p>He referred to the report by Linda Graham and pointed out that Byrom Wood is linked to Lightshaw Meadow which is part of the Borough ISS site.

<h2>Leigh Soroptimists</h2>
<p>Avis reported that the group have obtained funds from the Councillors to plant 100 trees near the fishing lakes at Bickershaw.  The signage has involved the Bickershaw Primary School children who have designed the logo and the planting should take place in October.



<h2>CRESS Eco Architecture</h2>
<p>Adrian reported that he was in the early stages of designed a shredder for hard plastic.
<p>It is envisaged that this could be turned into bricks and used to build house for the homeless.

<h2>Leigh & District Family History Society</h2>
<p>Glenys reported that volunteers from the Society are now running the Help Desk four mornings
a week in the refurbished Search Room at Archives: Wigan & Leigh.

<h2>Future Meetings</h2>
<p>An informal discussion took place about the future of these meetings.
It was agreed that some people were unable to attend via Zoom and we should consider face-to-face meetings in the future.
Adrian offered to facilitate the use of equipment to enable a face-to-face meeting with Zoom for those people unable to travel to the venues.
It was also suggested that the meetings could alternate between Wigan and Leigh but these would have to be agreed with the Archive staff.

<p><b>Date of Next Meeting:</b> to be decided

</body>
</html>
