<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes 12th April 2021</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1>
<p><b>10.30 a.m. 12th April 2021 over Zoom</b></p>

<p><b>Present:</b><br>
Joe Taylor (JT) Billinge Historic Society<br>
Peter Taylor (PT) Wigan Civic Trust<br>
Adrian D’Arcy (AD) CRESS Eco Architecture<br>
Julie Hotchkiss (JH) Extinction Rebellion, Wigan<br>
Kerrell Walley (KW) Wigan Council Climate Change Manager<br>
Neil Forshaw (NF) George Formby Society<br>
Paul Costella (PC) Leigh Film Society<br>
Adrian D’Arcy (AD) CRESS Eco Architecture<br>
Tony Bishop (TB) Leigh Ornithological Society<br>
Julie Clarke (JC) Wigan Council Communities Officer<br>
Glenys McClellan (GM) Leigh Family History Society

<p><b>Apologies for Absence:</b><br>
Avis Freeman (AV) Leigh Soroptimists<br>
Linda Graham (LG) Lowton West Residents/The Voice Lowton & Golborne

<p><b>Minutes for the last meeting</b>: approved as correct

<p><b>Matters arising:</b> None

<h2>Kerrell Walley (Climate Change Manager, Wigan Council)</h2>

<p>The past month has included a lot of strategic planning with regards to community engagement and education on climate change
<p>Several events will be planned this year including an event marking the declaration of the climate emergency in summer and also a second large event ahead of the COP26 climate negotiations in November
<p>Our Environmental Education Officer’s recently visited Spinner’s Mill in Leigh and were introduced to the many developing environmental-based ideas proposed – we will discuss any opportunity for collaboration at the next Naturalising the Borough meeting internally

<h2>Julie Clarke (Communities Officer, Wigan Council)<br><small>Community Recovery Fund</small></h2>
<p>The Community Investment Fund has been replaced with the Community Recovery Fund this year – a £2 million pot aimed at helping VCSE groups get back on their feet after a very disruptive 12 months. Applications are now open and funding is available for Community organisations based in Wigan Borough, particularly small community based local groups, that encourage community spirit, engage volunteers and who need some financial support so that they can continue to work with their communities.

<p>Funding is available for up to £500 and more details are available on the
  <a href="https://www.wigan.gov.uk/Council/The-Deal/Deal-Communities/Communities-Investment-Fund.aspx">Deal for Communities Website</a>
  
<p>Please contact me if you have any issues in completing the application – the turnaround will be quick I am told

<h2>Wigan Voluntary, Community and Social Enterprise Survey</h2>
<p>In February last year we started a conversation with voluntary, community and social enterprise organisations at our VCSE summit as part of Wigan’s Deal 2030 strategy.  The aim was to understand how we could collaborate and work together and for the benefit of our residents.  As we all begin to move out of lockdown and are able to start delivering services again, it is important for us to restart that conversation with you. We intend to use the findings of this survey to understand how we can work with you to build back better and strengthen partnerships throughout the VCSE.

<p>We would appreciate your participation of <a href="https://wh1.snapsurveys.com/s.asp?k=161546427980">the survey</a>

<h2>Sustainable Food Network</h2>
<p>There is still a lot of work around supporting the Sustainable Food Network with The Bridge on the Leigh side of the borough and Fur Clemt in Wigan to act as food distribution hubs for local pantries or food outlets. There are over 20 across the borough at present – some only open for a few hours a week – but all supporting access to affordable food and committed to reducing food waste. If anyone wants further details then please contact me

<h2>Flood Action Group</h2>

<p>A new flood action group has developed in Worsley Hall – the Sherwood Drive Flood Action group which set up late last year following surface water flooding affecting over 20 properties in August. We are working with local residents and the Flood Hub to create a resilience plan  - they are happy to support any other new groups in the borough if needed

<h2>Julie Hotchkiss (Extinction Rebellion, Wigan)</h2>
<p>Julie is stepping down from this role as she will be leaving the area soon.

<h2>Adrian D’Ary (CRESS Eco Architecture)</h2>
<p>Adrian reported that he had had meetings with Joe Platt and Peter Rawlinson at the Leigh Spinners about applying for Lottery Funding for Climate Change projects.  The bid included a suggestion that Wigan should become a centre for UK experts to show how Wigan is dealing with Climate Change.

<h2>Paul Costella (Leigh Film Society & Tyldesley)</h2>
<p>Paul reported that the Tyldesley High Street project was moving forward and that he was also involved with other organisations trying to organise a Cinema.

<h2>Neil Forshaw (George Formby Society)</h2>
<p>Neil reported that despite not being able to hold meetings or an AGM, the Society had kept in touch with one another by holding a trash meeting every night for twelve months.  This year marks 60 years since George Formby died and it had been hoped to hold celebrations but these are not possible at the moment due to the pandemic restrictions.  It is also 100 years since George first performed at Earlestown.

<h2>Glenys McCellan (Leigh Family History Society)</h2>
<p>Glenys reported that despite the Archives being closed, there was lots of work being done by volunteers at their homes.
  When the Archives do re-open the volunteers will be retrained and the Leigh Family History Society will be opening their Help Desk again.

<h2>Peter Taylor (Wigan Civic Trust)</h2>
<p>Peter continues to send out a monthly newsletter to members and will be holding a Committee Meeting later in the day.

<h2>Tony Bishop (Leigh Ornithological Society)</h2>
<p>Tony reported on the future of the Natural Reserve covering the Borough from Scotsman Flash through to Pennington Flash.
  A Public Consultation is vital.  He referred to the report previously circulated by Paul Richardson, Conservation Officer for Leigh Ornithological Society and hoped that his work would continue by others as he is leaving the area soon.

<p>Tony also mentioned that the Linford Park will be having a wildflower meadow and had received funding from the Brighter Borough Fund via the local Councillors.

<p><b>Date of Next Meeting</b> – 10th May 2021 at 10.30 a.m. by Zoom.

</body>
</html>
