<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>
<body>
<p><a href="/">Wigan Borough Environment & Heritage Network</a></p>
<h1>Meeting minutes</h1>
<p><b>10.30 a.m. 10th May 2021 over Zoom</b></p>

<p><b>Present:</b><br>
Joe Taylor (JT) Billinge Historic Society<br>
Peter Taylor (PT) Wigan Civic Trust<br>
Adrian D’Arcy (AD) CRESS Eco Architecture<br>
Paul Costello (PC) Leigh Film Society<br>
Adrian D’Arcy (AD) CRESS Eco Architecture<br>
Neil Linford (NL) Wigan Building Preservation Trust<br>
Lucy Northey (LN) Wigan Council Air Quality Officer<br>
Julie Clarke (JC) Wigan Council Communities Officer<br>
Linda Graham (LG) Lowton West Residents/The Voice Lowton & Golborne<br>
Glenys McClellan (GM) Leigh Family History Society

<p><b>Apologies:</b><br>
Avis Freeman (AV) Leigh Soroptimists<br>
Tony Bishop (TB) Leigh Ornithological Society<br>
Kerrell Walley (KW) Wigan Council Climate Change Manager<br>
Richard McDonald (RM) Wigan Council Conservation Officer<br>
Neil Forshaw (NF) George Formby Society

<p>Kerrell Walley asked that if anyone has any questions could they please
send them to her and she will answer at the next meeting.

<p><b>Minutes of last meeting:</b> Joe proposed that these were correct and seconded by Paul.

<h2>Death of Tom Price</h2>
<p>Joe reported the sad news of the passing of Tom, a former member of this Network.
<p>The Network will be represented at his funeral this afternoon by Avis Freeman and Peter Taylor.

<h2>Julie Clarke (Communities Officer, Wigan Council)</h2>
<p>Julie reported that the Community Fund applications had now closed and the panel would be awarded the final payments later today of £500 to various Community Groups.  There had been a lot of interest and a second round of funding would be announced in July for larger amounts to groups keen to promote more sustainability following the pandemic.
<p>Julie had had a catchup with the King Street Heritage project which was progressing well.
<p>Community Network meetings were now being arranged and it was pointed out that some of these were taking place at the same time so people were unable to attend more than one in which they might have be involved.

<h2>Lucy Northey (Air Quality Officer, Wigan Council)</h2>
<p>Lucy reported on future reports regarding transport due to be announced in July.
<p>She has been using Section 160 funding at several schools in the Borough to provide bikes, scooters, helmets and storage areas to help promote walking and cycling to school.
<p>There has also been a campaign to encourage composting rather than burning bonfires.
<p>A Government ‘Ready to Burn Scheme’ is also being promoted to ensure people are using dried wood and the website has been updated.
<p>Clean Air Day is 17th June 2021 and there is a pack available on the website.
<p>Paul Costello asked how the schools were determined and it was explained that they were usually within the area of the development and the Road Safety Officer checked the schools Road Safety plan.
<p>Linda Graham asked if Golborne had been considered for this funding.

<h2>Neil Linford (Wigan Preservation Trust)</h2>
<p>Neil is involved in several projects including the Canal and River Trust and is concerned about the demolition of building within the Wigan Pier complex.

<h2>Adrian D’Arcy (CRESS Eco Architecture)</h2>
<p>Adrian reported that his Company was now registered with Company House.  The application showed that the Company is involved in arts and dance in the Borough as well as promoting climate change in Wigan Borough.  This registration should help with any funding applications in the future.

<h2>Paul Costello (Leigh Film Society)</h2>
<p>Paul is also involved with the Tyldesley Housing action and the improvements to buildings on the High Street has resulted in increased footfall there.
<p>The Leigh Film Society will open again in September.
<p>The Spinners Mill is still struggling to obtain more funding.

<h2>Linda Graham (Lowton West Residents/The Voice Lowton & Golborne)</h2>
<p>Linda reported that there were still concerns about HS2 going through Byrom Hall Wood and that new gas pipeline markers have now been erected.
  This will mean that a wide corridor will be required for the railway resulting in the loss of trees.

<p>The local Forest Ranger retired in March and it is hoped that a new Ranger will be appointed soon.  There are 20 volunteers waiting to help when Covid restrictions allow.

<p>Leigh Ornithological Society had provided bat and bird boxes but are unable to erect them due to the Covid restrictions and the need for a risk assessment.

<h2>Glenys McClellan (Leigh Family History Society)</h2>
<p>Unfortunately, the Society is still not able to meet in the Derby Room.  The volunteers for the Archives are now been invited to training sessions ready for the re-opening of the Archives in the summer.

<h2>Peter Taylor (Wigan Civic Trust)</h2>
<p>Peter had already circulated the current newsletter with Tom Price’s obituary and will be working on the next one soon.

<p>The George Formby Society will be having a GF Birthday race at Haydock Park on Thursday the 27th of May.


<p><b>Next Meeting:</b> 14th June 2021 at 10.30 a.m. by Zoom

</body>
</html>
