<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
ENCOMPASS<br>
Minutes of the meeting Monday 10 September 2007 at the Bluecoat School, Wigan
<p>Present</p>
<p>Ray Hutchinson, Pam Stewart, Joe Taylor, Avis Freeman, Carol Watson, Simon 
  Dale, Andrew Heathman </p>
<p>Apologies</p>
<p>Clare Brennan, Jackie Mutch, Ann &amp; David Speers </p>
<p>Terms of Reference</p>
<p>It was decided to 'sign off' the TOR with the recommendation suggested by Clair 
  Brennan last week - four rather than five voting members will constitute a quorum.</p>
<p>As Simon and Avis were not present at last week's meeting, it was made clear 
  that the two points agreed on then were that Encompass would move towards adopting 
  a constitution and that it would seek to become an established and valued point 
  of contact and consultation for those agencies seeking to engage with the community 
  in the Wigan Borough </p>
<p>Minutes of the previous meeting </p>
<p>Accepted as true and accurate. </p>
<p>Matters arising</p>
<p>It was agreed that the membership issue should be revisited. The Networks need 
  to be assured that their active participation is expected and required. If a 
  Network is not participating actively and ensuring that at least one of its 
  members is attending meetings, there is little point in it having membership 
  status. </p>
<p>Action: Each Network to be asked by CEP to ensure they are represented at every 
  Encompass meeting</p>
<p>Community Representation</p>
<p>This issue was raised at the LSP Board meeting on Friday 7th September and 
  identified as needing to be resolved. There is need of clarification on community 
  representation on the LSP Board, the Strategic Management Group, the Thematic 
  Partnerships, the LAA Working Group and the Third Sector Liaison Group. A lengthy 
  discussion ensued. </p>
<p>Pam highlighted the problems that occur due to lack of adequate communication 
  with the Community Sector, resulting in plans and policies being put into place 
  before the community knows anything about them. This problem might be alleviated 
  if community representatives were present when plans and polices concerning 
  the community were being considered, rather than having these plans and polices 
  presented to them for comment.</p>
<p>Carol agreed that links are important throughout the entire decision making 
  framework or the community feels 'left out of it' and gave the Police policy 
  of openness and transparency as a good example best practice.</p>
<p>Andrew reported that Lynn Kay had replied our query about community representation 
  by saying that no decision had yet been made at LSP level.</p>
<p>Simon reported that consideration is being given to reducing the Thematic Partnerships 
  to four and expects decisions about the composition of the Partnerships to be 
  made around November. Those decisions would need to be recommended by the Strategic 
  Management Group and ratified by the LSP Board. At present, there are five community 
  representatives on the LSP Board but none on the Strategic Management Group. 
  Carol highlighted the fact that decisions made at Strategic Management Group 
  impact on the community. Pam explained that she and the majority of the Community 
  Sector volunteers throughout the Borough, including those present, became involved 
  because of clear Central Government policy that stated that it was a requirement 
  that the community should be in positions to influence any and all decisions 
  made concerning its social, environmental and economic well-being.</p>
<p>Carol stated that it was also necessary for the roles of LSP Board members 
  to be clearly defined so that people know who is on the Board and what they 
  do. As she is involved fulltime in community participation and doesn't know 
  the roles of the LSP Board members, then there is little or no chance that a 
  member of the community could know.</p>
<p>It was decided that Pam, as Chair of Encompass, would write to the Third Sector 
  Liaison Group requesting community representation via Encompass on that group.</p>
<p>It was decided that Pam, as Chair of Encompass, would write to Peter and Joyce 
  requesting community representation via Encompass on the LAA Working Group and 
  the Strategic Management Group and that the issue of community representation 
  on the LPS Board and the Thematic Partnerships be clarified as matter of urgency.</p>
<p>Constitution</p>
<p>It was agreed that Pam, Carol and Joe would draft up a constitution based on 
  the Terms of Reference so that it can be presented and discussed at the next 
  Encompass meeting.</p>
<p> Treasurer and Bank Account</p>
<p>It was agreed that Avis would be treasurer for Encompass and Joe would open 
  a bank account at the Halifax, as he has done that recently for Heritage Network. 
  Carol Watson agreed to be a signatory.</p>
<p>Conferences </p>
<p>Pam explained the problems encountered in recent years in getting the funding 
  for community representatives to attend relevant conferences on time. It was 
  agreed that a source of this funding should be identified and that Encompass 
  should manage and be held accountable for it.</p>
<p>Other Business</p>
<p>The Partnership Convention Planning meeting will be held 1.30 12th September 
  at Hallgate House and all interested parties are invited.</p>
<p>Henceforth, Joe, as secretary, will minute meetings and will circulate a rough 
  draft to all persons present for input before circulating the minutes to the 
  wider membership, as per the Encompass communication policy. Anyone taking notes 
  at meetings is requested to forward those notes to the secretary as soon as 
  possible after the meeting so that they can be incorporated into the minutes.</p>
<p>Next Meeting</p>
<p>Monday 8th October 10 am at the Bluecoat School<br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
