<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
ENCOMPASS
<p>Minutes of the meeting Monday 10th December 2007 at Ince Community Centre</p>
<p>Present:</p>
<p>Pam Stewart, Joe Taylor, Avis Freeman, Carol Watson, Irene Yates, Khaled Amini, 
  Marion Andrews, Bob Alln, Ed Ellis (7 Networks represented)</p>
<p>In Attendance: Emma Scott,</p>
<p>Apologies: Clare Brennan, Nick Trotter, Sian Jay, Kelly Mills, Ray Hutchison, 
  Maureen Burgess, Jeanette Bailey</p>
<p>Welcome:</p>
<p>Bob Allen, representing the Voluntary Sector Network, was introduced to the 
  other Network representatives and welcomed by the Chair to his first Encompass 
  meeting</p>
<p>Minutes of the previous meeting </p>
<p>Accepted as true and accurate</p>
<p>Matters arising</p>
<p>None</p>
<p>Progress Report - LSP &amp; Urban Forum</p>
<p>At the last LSP Board meeting (23rd November) the matter of future community 
  representation on the LSP Board and Thematic Partnerships was raised and it 
  was decided that a working group, consisting of Bob Allan, Tom Frost and Encompass 
  (Pam and Joe) would convene then take recommendations back to the Board. This 
  meeting will occur at Bob's office at Groundwork on the 17th of December. </p>
<p>We are still not sure how the LSP will be restructured and what the framework 
  of the Thematic Partnerships will be. There has been talk of reducing the Partnerships 
  to four, merging some Partnerships and dissolving others. Having three representatives 
  elected to the WBP from Borough Wide Community Network, one from BME, one from 
  Faith and none from the other networks needs reassessing, as does having representatives 
  to the Thematic Partnerships elected only from BWCN or by individual invite.</p>
<p>There was discussion about the pressure of commitment placed on volunteers 
  to such important positions, the need to have nominated replacements/substitutes 
  to ensure continuity and the need for representatives to feel comfortable within 
  their roles. Ed Ellis suggested we formulate a detailed proposal for the LSP 
  on how to 'take to the game forward' with community representation in view of 
  the capacity that has been accrued by the third sector in this borough over 
  the last six or so years.</p>
<p>Action: Emma to draft something for members to discuss at the next meeting</p>
<p>The topic at this year's Urban Forum convention was Community Empowerment. 
  Five of Wigan's community networks had representatives at that conference. Pam 
  Stewart, chair of Encompass, has been asked to put her name forward for the 
  now vacant position as chair of Urban Forum. This is a great honour for herself 
  and the Borough. It underlines the capacity of our third sector and the value 
  of its contribution to our neighbourhood's quality of life </p>
<p>Urban Forum emphasised that where funding for Community Empowerment is concerned, 
  the Local Area Agreement (LAA) is the 'only game in town'. </p>
<p>Hazel Blears, Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government, has 
  made it clear that Community Empowerment is on top of her agenda. As from 1st 
  April 2009, the New Local Government Act 2007 will place a statutory duty on 
  councils to adopt </p>
<p>&middot; A comprehensive approach to community engagement<br>
  &middot; A strategy to involve socially excluded groups<br>
  &middot; Involvement of local residents, business &amp; third sector in decision 
  making </p>
<p>Local Area Agreement:</p>
<p>For council to deliver on Community Empowerment, there will have to be relating 
  priorities and themes contained within the LAA.</p>
<p>Emma has been trying to organise a presentation about the LAA for Encompass 
  but this has not been arranged as yet. Simon Dale gave a presentation about 
  the LAA to a special meeting of the Orrell Billinge Winstanley Township Forum 
  5th December. Two Encompass members were present. A list of 35 emerging priorities 
  and themes was presented. None of these 35 relate directly to Community Empowerment. 
  For distribution with the minutes, Emma has marked those priorities and themes 
  in yellow that she thinks the networks are already contributing towards and 
  in green those priorities and themes in which she thinks the voluntary &amp; 
  community sectors might play a role.</p>
<p>It is a matter of some urgency that the LAA contains priorities and themes 
  that enables the Community Empowerment Program to promote community empowerment, 
  cohesion and development through the existing community network framework. Two 
  informal workshops have been arranged for those wishing to contribute to the 
  development of the LAA, Tuesday 11th December 4.30 pm - 6.30 pm at Wigan Town 
  Hall, Wednesday 12th December 9.30 am - 11.30am at Leigh Town Hall. It was agreed 
  that Encompass members should attend these workshops, if possible. </p>
<p>Ed Ellis agreed to look up links to relevant information and to pass them on 
  ASAP. He pointed out that certain priorities and themes will be obligatory and 
  that some will be subject to negotiation. </p>
<p>The CEP Service Level Agreement:</p>
<p>Emma Scott tabled the SLA between Wigan Council (as accountable body for the 
  Wigan Borough Partnership) and Wigan &amp; Leigh CVS and commented on all the 
  points contained within that document. She tabled the CEP delivery plan from 
  April 2006 - March 2008 and the NRF Evaluation Questionnaire that she had to 
  comply with in relation to the NRF funding for delivery of the program. </p>
<p>She also tabled the SLA between Encompass and WBP. </p>
<p>If there is going to be a Community Empowerment Program beyond March 2008, 
  Encompass will have to enter into a SLA with WBP, develop a delivery plan and 
  decide who the accountable body for the program will be, i.e. who will employ 
  any staff and provide the financial &amp; monitoring requirements that come 
  with grants/contracts. </p>
<p>Encompass is developing its capacity to fulfil future responsibilities as we 
  enter this new era of Community Empowerment, under the direction of the new 
  Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government. We intend being ready 
  for March 2008.</p>
<p>Code of Conduct:</p>
<p>The chair and secretary signed off the revised code for conduct for Encompass, 
  which can be amended in a year's time, if necessary. </p>
<p>Thanks go to Andrew Heathman for the work he put into the revision of the document.</p>
<p>Bank Account &amp; Related Matters:</p>
<p>The cheque for Urban Forum (&pound;1005.00) has been posted and Carol Watson 
  will take the bankbook to re-record her signature. Avis Freeman and Carol Watson 
  will be the only two signatures on the account for the time being, as the current 
  secretary is taking a leave of absence and will not be available for a while.</p>
<p>Encompass will consider the position of secretary at the next meeting.</p>
<p>Action: To be an item on the next agenda</p>
<p>Reports from Networks:</p>
<p>It was agreed that the Network representative members of Encompass should produce 
  digital reports regarding their particular network at regular intervals and 
  interchange them, via the secretary, with other Encompass members for dissemination 
  to the other networks. </p>
<p>Any Other Business: </p>
<p>A paper was handed out by Emma (circulated with these minutes), which detailed 
  key points from the National Empowerment Partnership with regional facilitators 
  of community networks. This shows there has already been substantial lobbying 
  to find continuation funding for community empowerment networks, however also 
  states CENs need to make the case again for them to be funded as not all have 
  been as fruitful as some.</p>
<p>Emma again raised the action plan and said we need to comment on it if we feel 
  it needs changing. It was agreed by Encompass in Sept 2006, so is over-due a 
  revision. </p>
<p><br>
  Dates &amp; Venues For Future Meetings:</p>
<p>For the time being, Encompass meetings will be held at Ince community centre 
  on a six-week cycle, starting at 10.00 a.m. on Monday 14th January, Monday 25th 
  February, Monday 7th April, Monday 19th May, Monday 30th June</p>
<p>Please ensure these dates are noted in your diaries and if you personally cannot 
  make the meeting, please make sure that another member represents your Network.</p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
