<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
Minutes of Encompass meeting held at The Grange Community Centre Marus Bridge 
11/11/2008.
<p>Present: Marion Andrews, Phil Hurst &amp; Carol Watson (BWCN), Khaled Amini 
  &amp; Sullyman (BME), Clare Brennan (Over 50's), Joe Taylor (Heritage)</p>
<p>In Attendance: Simon Dale (LSP support officer) &amp; Jez Hall PB Unit</p>
<p>Apologies: Pam Stewart (BWCN), Ray Hutchinson &amp; Hilary Young (Faith) &amp; 
  Irene Yates (Disability)</p>
<p>Participatory Budgeting: Jez Hall from the PB unit gave a long and detailed 
  explanation of the PB concept and process then answered questions about the 
  topic. </p>
<p>He emphasised the importance of getting political will behind the process as 
  we are dealing with public money. The Values and Principals behind the concept 
  are universal but there are many different ways or applying them, as expedient 
  for a particular area. </p>
<p> As a result, it was decided that at the next Ascend meeting, planned for 26th 
  November at the Town Hall, we would hold a PB event. The Community Networks, 
  including Encompass, will be eligible to bid for funds from the &pound;20,000 
  allocation made by the LSP to support the Networks in the interim period until 
  next April. The members of Ascend present at the meeting will be able to vote 
  on the bids. </p>
<p>A further meeting of Encompass will be arranged next week to discuss how the 
  bidding process should be conducted so that we are as well-prepared for the 
  event as possible in the time available. </p>
<p>Jez Hall indicated that he would come along to assist on the night.</p>
<p>Marion will inform the Ascend membership about the 26th prior to an agenda 
  being sent out a week before the event.</p>
<p>The secretary to liaise with the PB Unit up to the Ascend meeting on the 26th 
</p>
<p>Minutes of the last meeting: The Minutes of the last meeting 9th October 2008 
  were confirmed as correct, with a small amendment regarding Over 50's having 
  no desire for the criteria for funding to be altered. Joe will amend the previous 
  minutes then put them up on the website.</p>
<p>Matters arising: </p>
<p>As Ed Ellis has had to relinquish the chair due to work pressures, Carol Watson, 
  as vice-chair, will chair Encompass meetings in the interim period until the 
  next AGM - proposed Clare Brennan, seconded Marion Andrews, accepted unanimously.</p>
<p>Office Space: </p>
<p>Phil Hurst and Marion Andrews have inspected the premises in Hindley know as 
  Tudor House as a possible future base for Encompass and/or other Networks. </p>
<p>The benefits of a joint office (as previously highlighted earlier this year 
  by Irene and Clare in particular) are:</p>
<p>- working together we can cover for each other saving on man power - a rota 
  could be prepared to man the office for the whole week, but this does not necessarily 
  mean that each Network has to cover the office all day, every day</p>
<p>- working together we can save money on rent, and utilities,</p>
<p>- we can share information and skills and therefore offer our members a better 
  service</p>
<p>- we can save postage by making the most of each networks mail out</p>
<p>- we can have more effect on a strategic basis if we are in communication and 
  aware of each others plans, activities.</p>
<p>Although premises have been secured, or may be under consideration by other 
  Networks: </p>
<p>- the premises in Hindley are ideally positioned centrally in the borough and 
  close to a major bus route meaning that members from all networks can easily 
  access the premises. This is a crucial factor when bidding for funds or selling 
  services.</p>
<p>- the premises are accessible (DDA) and ground floor rooms are available to 
  rent</p>
<p>- parking is available and arrangements are currently underway with the local 
  public house to be able to use their car park (this is situated just around 
  the corner) A very large car park is available within 1 minutes walk.</p>
<p>- from past experience (and evidenced by people voting with their feet!) people 
  seem happier to travel to meetings/events if they feel that everyone else is 
  travelling too. It has been noted that some events at remote parts of the borough 
  have resulted in poor attendance as people from the other side of the borough 
  are not prepared to travel/are not confident/familiar with the area etc </p>
<p>- one large office can be secured, or alternatively one, two or several rooms 
  are available if Networks prefer to operate from their own 'space'</p>
<p>- meeting rooms are available</p>
<p>- kitchen facilities are available</p>
<p>- the rooms have recently been used as offices for the PCT and have been re 
  decorated within the past month</p>
<p>- the rental charges for community organisations are very reasonable </p>
<p>Member are requested to consider the pros and cons regarding obtaining office 
  space and to forward their opinions </p>
<p></p>
<p> Bank Account &amp; Related Financial Matters:</p>
<p>The secretary is keeping an Excel spreadsheet of all financial transactions, 
  which was presented to the meeting, to assist a future treasurer. Encompass 
  will need to secure accredited financial training for the treasurers of all 
  the community networks so that every organisation is doing the books in a similar 
  and appropriate manner. </p>
<p>Encompass has reserved a domain name and web space for a website that will 
  have a separate section within it for each network. Training will have to be 
  given to members from each of the networks in the use and development of this 
  website </p>
<p><br>
  Date of Next Meeting: To be decided </p>
<p><br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
