<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
ENCOMPASS
<p>MINUTES OF THE MEETING <br>
  HELD ON MONDAY 14th JANUARY 2008 <br>
  AT INCE COMMUNITY CENTRE</p>
<p>1. Present<br>
  Pam Stewart (Chair), Avis Freeman (ETNA), Clare Brennan (Over 50s Forum), Irene 
  Yates (Disability Forum), Carol Watson (BWCN), Marion Andrews (BWCN), Shaffa 
  Ullah (BME Network), Angela Wood, David Wilson (ETNA), Jackie Roberts (ETNA).</p>
<p>In attendance: Nick Trotter (CVS), Emma Scott (CEP), Andrew Heathman (CEP)</p>
<p>2. Apologies<br>
  Sian Jay (Wigan MBC), Ray Hutchinson (Faith Network), Tim Hall (Faith Network), 
  Hilary Young (Faith Network), Simon Dale (Wigan MBC)</p>
<p>3. Letter from Wigan Council.</p>
<p>Pam Stewart asked Emma Scott to read out the letter received from Wigan Council 
  regarding NRF funding.<br>
  Emma confirmed that she received a letter from Christine<br>
  Bainbridge (Resource Procurement &amp; Development Manager, Wigan MBC), that 
  confirms the end of the Neighbourhood Renewal funding for the Community Empowerment 
  Programme at the end of March 2008. </p>
<p>The discussion raised the following points:</p>
<p>&middot; CEP documentation will remain at CVS for 7 years.</p>
<p>&middot; There needs to be an agreement for data protection issues with CVS 
  to enable ENCOMPASS to continue to have database contacts available.</p>
<p>&middot; Nick Trotter - CVS needs to clarify legal obligations about transfer 
  of information to networks and &quot;change of use&quot; issues.</p>
<p>&middot; Agreed to form a sub-group to discuss this and make proposals to take 
  this forward. Emma, Nick, Pam, Carol and Irene agreed to do this. Also ENCOMPASS 
  needs an &quot;acting Secretary&quot; due to Joe Taylor's absence for a few 
  months. Volunteer wanted as soon as possible !</p>
<p>&middot; Nick - Changes in the Structures of the Local Strategic Partnership 
  and the Local Area Agreement are still not decided. This has implications for 
  all the community empowerment networks and Encompass for representation on the 
  thematic partnerships and the Board. </p>
<p>&middot; Pam - this also raises serious questions about the Council's Beacon 
  Council status</p>
<p>&middot; Still queries about the roles and responsibilities of the Townships 
  and PACTs</p>
<p>&middot; Marion - On the structure diagram for the LSP, there is no direct 
  link for community representation - it is a separate block. This is serious 
  for the community networks and Encompass and needs to be addressed.</p>
<p>&middot; Pam - There is a serious issue about the lack of recognition by Wigan 
  MBC of the roles and all the work of volunteers throughout the CEP's work over 
  the last 5 years. </p>
<p>&middot; Nick - Volunteers should not be &quot;out of pocket&quot; for their 
  time commitments and valuable participation in the CEP, LSP etc. Is the Council 
  going to resource volunteers for their future participation ?</p>
<p>&middot; Emma - Funding from the Esmee Fairbairn Foundation is a possibility 
  - Marion, Clare, Carol and Pam agreed to meet to pursue this</p>
<p>&middot; Carol - Networks need to investigate applying for funding independently 
  as well as Encompass.</p>
<p>&middot; Andrew suggested that all the networks and Encompass become members 
  of CVS as a way of still being able access support and information beyond March 
  31st 2008.</p>
<p>&middot; There is to be a meeting with Simon Dale to clarify many of the issues. 
  Date to be arranged.</p>
<p><br>
  DATE AND TIME OF THE NEXT MEETING</p>
<p>MONDAY 25 FEBRUARY 2008<br>
  10am AT INCE COMMUNITY CENTRE</p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
