<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
Minutes of Encompass meeting held at The Town Hall 16/06/2009
<p>Present: Carol Watson (Chair BWCN), Pam Stewart (Hon Member), Clare Brennan 
  &amp; Elaine Jones (Over 50's), Khaled Amini, (BME) Joe Taylor &amp; Colin Ives 
  (Heritage), Phil Hurst BWCN</p>
<p>Sian Jay, Liz Mackay Lynn Kay &amp; Simon Dale (WBC), Mick Taylor (CVS).</p>
<p>Apologies: Marion Andrews (BWCN), Julie Ridgeway (MBC) </p>
<p>The chair welcomed the new attendees and the meeting commended at 1.00.</p>
<p>Possible amendments to the Encompass constitution</p>
<p>After discussion it was proposed that the Membership clause of the Encompass 
  constitution be amended to:</p>
<p>Encompass will strive to represent all segments of the community across the 
  Wigan Borough, including the 'hard-to-reach' groups.</p>
<p>Membership will consist of a maximum of two representatives from each of the 
  current community networks, any future community networks and the elected representatives 
  of ASCEND. </p>
<p>Elected community representatives to Wigan Borough Partnership &amp; Thematic 
  Partnerships may attend and contribute to Encompass meetings but will not vote. 
  If consensus cannot be reached, the vote will be one vote per Network with the 
  Chair having the casting vote. </p>
<p>Membership will be reviewed when necessary. </p>
<p>The following bodies will be co-opted members, with no voting rights: <br>
  Wigan &amp; Leigh CVS and Wigan Borough Partnership. Officers from these bodies 
  will be invited to meetings as appropriate.</p>
<p>It is the responsibility of each affiliated Network to ensure that it is represented 
  at Encompass meetings by at least one of its two representatives and that feedback 
  is received from the nominated/chosen representatives.</p>
<p>It was noted that Adult Services have requested that a representative from 
  their department to attend future meetings. It was agreed that the WBC representatives 
  present at this meeting, plus a representative from Adult Services, be invited 
  to attend future meetings, subject to review.</p>
<p>Mick Taylor suggested that it might be more appropriate for officers to act 
  in an advisory capacity and that the community representatives take responsibility 
  for making strategic decisions. </p>
<p>Pam Stewart suggested that it might be appropriate to invite a councillor to 
  join Encompass. It was decided to consider this proposal at a later date.<br>
  It was decided that Encompass membership would be would be monitored and reviewed 
  if necessary in six months time. </p>
<p>Colin Ives had to leave at that point. He requested that his thoughts regarding 
  the next agenda item be conveyed to the meeting by Joe Taylor </p>
<p>What constitutes a 'community network' and which organisations are therefore 
  eligible to nominate members to Encompass.</p>
<p>'Transition Town Wigan' and a recently formed LGBT Network have requested representation 
  on Encompass. 'Transition Town Wigan' has a webpage, a constitution and has 
  holds bi-weekly meetings. Sub groups of this organisation are being formed and 
  one is already active in Orrell. Colin Ives, lead member of 'Transition Town 
  Wigan' had conveyed to the secretary that he believes an organisation should 
  be eligible to have representation on Encompass if its constitution defines 
  it to be a 'network' rather than an organization, if, for the sake of transparency, 
  its constitution and minutes for twelve months are visible online and if its 
  representatives are elected at a quorate meeting of its entire membership, such 
  as the AGM.</p>
<p>Sian spoke about a network being defined by its characteristics and thought 
  that the LSP might not agree to a newly formed network having to demonstrate 
  that it was established and viable over a 12-month period before being eligible 
  to have representation on Encompass.</p>
<p>Pam Stewart spoke about the value of ASCEND, how, as the operational body of 
  the Community Network and the one forum in the borough where any person, as 
  a member of any group or organisation, or as an individual, can voice an opinion, 
  participate in discussion, accrue capacity and receive support, it should remain 
  and be further developed. Encompass, however, is a strategic body and therefore 
  it has to be accountable. It is therefore important that Encompass members have 
  a mandate to represent a network and the capacity to fulfil duties required 
  at strategic level.</p>
<p>Khaled Amini reported that a BME steering group in Atherton elected him as 
  a BME representative to the LSP. In his opinion, World In Wigan is not a BME 
  Network but he and others are trying to organise a BME network.</p>
<p>It was pointed out that, despite a great deal of effort, the establishment 
  of a Faith Network has not been possible.</p>
<p>Carol Watson said that she is endeavouring to bring together the two LGBT Networks. 
  <br>
  <br>
  There was some discussion regarding the formation of networks concerned with 
  social identity. Mick Taylor pointed out that many community groups form because 
  of a mutual perceived need and few of them even consider social identity. </p>
<p>Phil said that he considered that the BWCN came nearest to representing 'class' 
  in the borough, because of the great diversity of groups represented.</p>
<p>It was decided that the matter of eligibility to Encompass will be finalised 
  at 'task and finish group' to be convened as soon as appropriate. </p>
<p>What role will Encompass be required to perform by the LSP (electoral college 
  - development of social identity networks)?</p>
<p>A general discussion regarding present community representation at the LSP 
  and Thematic Partnerships lead into a more detailed discussion about:</p>
<p>The Electoral College - how should it operate?</p>
<p>Simon Dale circulated a working draft of a proposed methodology for this process, 
  outlining the scale of the need for representation, the development of a 'talent 
  pool' of individuals with a wide rage for skills and experience that could be 
  supported by the LSP and the Community Network and the need to develop the skills 
  and expertise of that 'talent pool'. </p>
<p>Lynn Kay spoke about representation as a two way process - what the individual 
  needs and what the LSP needs. She suggested that development of 'job descriptions' 
  should be a joint effort between the LSP and Encompass.</p>
<p>Simon asked that each person give his or her opinion on the draft to date so 
  that it could be appropriately refined in time for the next LSP board meeting 
  July 6th.</p>
<p>Joe Taylor: agreed with the concept and was pleased with the time frame as 
  outlined.<br>
  Sian Jay: thought the document should outline where we have come from and where 
  we are going.<br>
  Phil Hurst: expressed concern that the community would not get the final say 
  and that the process should not be rushed.<br>
  Khaled Amini wanted to know if representation would be voluntary or otherwise, 
  what would be the job descriptions and what recourses would be devoted to education. 
  <br>
  Clare Brennan thought the matter of volunteer expenses might be included.<br>
  Elaine Jones considered the training aspect to be important. <br>
  Carol Watson expressed concern that 'cherry picking' might occur.<br>
  Mick Taylor thought that certain points needed some 'fleshing out'.</p>
<p>In response, Simon explained that a 'Partnership' should not be put in a position 
  where it appeared as though a community representative had been thrust upon 
  them nor should a representative be expected to amalgamate into an intimidating 
  group of strangers without some informal introduction and mutual acceptance 
  beforehand.</p>
<p>Ascend meetings: how will they be facilitated &amp; developed, when will the 
  next meeting be and what will be on the agenda?<br>
  There wasn't time for a full discussion on this agenda item. It was suggested 
  that the next meeting might be in September and it was agreed that St Peter's 
  Hindley is a suitable venue. Various topics were suggested. Clare Brennan mentioned 
  that the business table at the last meeting had ideas that could be developed. 
  Following the last LSP board meeting, 'cohesion' could be a suitable topic. 
  Officers, residents and councillors had raised the subject of 'community consultation'. 
  Carol Watson suggested we might seek the services of Amanda Greenwood to facilitate 
  an event based around the topic of 'community consultancy looking towards community 
  cohesion'. Joe Taylor will try to contact Amanda Greenwood re availability and 
  cost.</p>
<p>Nick Clarke, from the Planning Department, has been in touch to request assistance 
  with the 'core strategy' for the local development framework. It was pointed 
  out that, though there is a time scale operation, the fact that planning came 
  to Encompass, as a first stop for assistance with consultation, should be taken 
  into consideration. Joe has already circulated the documentation regarding the 
  core strategy via the Ascend and Heritage Network mailing lists and will contact 
  Nick Clarke re further assistance.</p>
<p>The chair closed the meeting close at 4.00. </p>
<p>A schedule of future Encompass meetings will be arranged, if possible.<br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
