<html>
<head>
<title>Untitled Document</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
</head>

<body bgcolor="#FFFFFF" text="#000000">
Notes of Encompass meeting held at Ince Community Centre Manchester Road Ince 
Wigan 16th June 2008
<p>Present: Pam Stewart (BWCN), Clare Brennan (Over 50's), Irene Yates (Disability), 
  Avis Freeman (ETNA), Marion Andrews (BWCN), Carol Watson (BWVC), Ed Ellis (Youth), 
  Joe Taylor (Heritage)</p>
<p>In attendance: Emma Scott</p>
<p>Apologies: Ray Hutchinson, Khaled Amini</p>
<p>Mo Burgess has written to indicate that she cannot fulfil the obligations as 
  VSN representative on Encompass</p>
<p>Election of a new chair: Pam Stewart reported that she could no longer continue 
  as chair due to her additional responsibilities as new chair of Urban Forum. 
  After clarifying points regarding procedure an election was held. Two candidates, 
  Ed Ellis and Irene Yates, were proposed and seconded, a paper ballot took place 
  as a result and Ed Ellis was elected to take over as chair until the next AGM.</p>
<p>Ed asked for a vote of thanks, congratulated Pam on her achievements, acknowledged 
  her contribution to the organisation and expressed the conviction that she will 
  continue to champion the cause for participatory democracy throughout the Wigan 
  &amp; Leigh Borough.</p>
<p>It was proposed (JT), seconded (EE) and unanimously agreed that Pam Stewart 
  will henceforth be an Honorary Member of Encompass for Life as a token of our 
  appreciation for her dedication</p>
<p>Pam Stewart also reported that she is also unable to continue as a community 
  representative on the Wigan Borough Partnership and proposed Joe Taylor to take 
  her place for the rest of her term. This proposal was seconded (EE) and accepted.</p>
<p>Minutes of the last meeting: The Minutes of the last meeting 8th May 2008 were 
  amended to show that Carole Watson had attended then confirmed as correct. </p>
<p>Matters arising: Members present voiced regret at the consultation process 
  for Vision 2026. Comparatively few residents attended the consultation meetings 
  and this might not have been the case if officers realised they could receive 
  assistance from Encompass, the peak community body, whenever they are required 
  to consult with the community.</p>
<p>Some discussion took place regarding future funding. Carol, Irene and Marion 
  will meet as a sub committee to action this process. Pam has the application 
  forms for Douglas Valley. </p>
<p>The Wigan Voices website will be reduced to one page and signpost visitors 
  to the appropriate place. Joe will create an online presence for Encompass minutes 
  and agendas.</p>
<p>Report on the All Networks meeting 28th May: Emma reported in full and highlighted 
  that the All Networks forum will change it's name, become a constituted organization 
  and allow all network members to play their part in implementing the strategies 
  formulated by Wigan Borough Partnership, with strategic guidance coming from 
  Encompass.</p>
<p>In addition, Emma reported on the current progress of the workshops currently 
  being undertaken with Community Engagement, CVS and Community Reps - facilitated 
  by an external company - Martin Gilbraith - in relation to the future for community 
  engagement in the borough.<br>
  <br>
  Marion explained that the deadline for completion of the work is September. 
  This has to be completely carried out over the summer period and is causing 
  problems in actually being able to arrange meetings due to holidays. It was 
  decided at the last meeting to hold several consultation events (as opposed 
  to one big event in the holiday period) at different times and different venues 
  across the borough so that everyone would have an opportunity to be able to 
  attend, 'air their views' and 'have their say' about the direction they want 
  to take in relation to community engagement/empowerment. The diagram that Emma 
  prepared (to physically show members of the networks just where they fitted 
  into the whole picture) has been discussed at these meetings and is included 
  in the proposals to be put forward to the WBP. The next meeting is set for 23rd 
  June when Martin will present the basis of the action plan.</p>
<p>Report on the Sustainable Communities Conference London 5th June:</p>
<p>A full report by Marion has been circulated to Encompass members. The thee 
  attendees came to the conclusion that a mechanism should be set up for the community 
  representatives who attend such conferences, where major government strategies 
  are disseminated, to report back, face to face, with the relevant council officers. 
  In this instance, it would be appropriate to report back to the relevant officers 
  charged with developing the Sustainability Strategy. </p>
<p>The chair will make the necessary inquiries and write to appropriate person.</p>
<p>Bank account and related matters: Avis Freeman reported that the current balance 
  stands at &pound;4,564. Encompass is now self-funding. The secretary asked that 
  members bring their own copies of minutes and agendas to meetings.</p>
<p>Reports from networks: </p>
<p>Over 50's forum is currently going through some challenging times - particularly 
  with regard to funding. We have reluctantly had to terminate the contract of 
  our administrator in order to ensure that we can finance the office and member 
  services. The trustees have set up a number of new and exciting projects and 
  have more in the pipeline. The pace at which these are introduced will depend 
  on our ability to write a successful funding bid. Our membership is growing 
  week-on-week and now stands at 182. We are in the process of reviewing the administrative 
  needs so that we can use volunteers constructively for some of the day-to-day 
  tasks.</p>
<p>Heritage Network recently had their AGM. John O'Neill is now chair and Joe 
  Taylor remains secretary. WLCT will support Heritage Network by providing a 
  venue for meetings and administrative support.</p>
<p>The Borough Wide Community Network Working Committee met on the 16th June 2008 
  to discuss the future of the Network. A letter will be sent to all Members when 
  the July mail out for the All Networks meeting is despatched</p>
<p>World in Wigan is growing in membership and diversity. They are getting regular 
  reports from Greater Manchester Police regarding hate crime issues. They now 
  have an office over the Bricklayers Arms in Hallgate</p>
<p>The Voluntary Services Network has been absorbed into CVS </p>
<p>ETNA is concerned about the Bickershaw Development and the lack of coordination 
  between the groups involved.</p>
<p>Youth Network reports that great things going on across the Borough, with regard 
  to voluntary youth work. A range of FREE courses for voluntary youth workers 
  is currently being run by both WCVYS and CVS. Groundwork has rolled out a new 
  Youthworks programme in West Leigh. A new round of Youth Opportunities/Youth 
  Capital funding is also due, register an interest at information@wcvys.org.</p>
<p>Wigan &amp; Leigh Disability Forum: <br>
  &middot; Still continuing our search for Office Premises - which will happen 
  this year<br>
  &middot; Idea of Central Hub for all networks to operate from in a professional 
  capacity - ongoing<br>
  &middot; We have a new chair (elected 21st May)- Margaret Simm<br>
  &middot; Also new treasurer (elected 21st May) - Sandra Lightfoot<br>
  &middot; Involvement with being one of the 10 groups (Perceptions Arts Project) 
  is going well and very positive about how people perceive disabilities - end 
  product on display Turnpike Gallery - end January 2009<br>
  &middot; Ongoing funding for sustainability <br>
  &middot; Health/Social Care Project involvement imminent</p>
<p>AOB: In his capacity as new chair, Ed Ellis spoke the following matters:<br>
  1. The need to establish encompass as the direct, single link between the Local 
  Strategic Partnership and the 3rd Sector in the Borough. In an effort to move 
  the organisation to this new position, we must all work to achieve the following:<br>
  a. Increased representation (beyond those who are able to currently attend meetings)<br>
  b. Transparency - as an organisation we must demonstrate clear and open procedures.<br>
  c. Supportive evidence - we must ensure that we can fully evidence anything 
  we submit as an organisation.<br>
  d. Accessibility - the organisation should work towards accessibility to all 
  members of our community. This may be achieved by alternatives to traditional 
  meetings.<br>
  e. Dissemination of information - The organisation should explore ways to ensure 
  that information is made available to all its members and to other stakeholders, 
  where deemed appropriate.</p>
<p>2. The Chair asked those attending the meeting to consider the following:<br>
  a. What is our (the Encompass organisation) route forward?<br>
  b. Revisit our organisational direction?<br>
  c. Funding ideas for the taking the group into the future.<br>
  d. What is the organisation? (Encompass)</p>
<p>3. The Chair also stated he would report back to the next meeting (7th July 
  2008) on the following:<br>
  a. Simplification of information internally/through the organisation.<br>
  b. Web based communications.<br>
  c. PC home use and the implications of Data Protection</p>
<p>Phil Hurst, chair of BWCN, had emailed in to suggest that the matter of future 
  community representation within the Wigan Borough Partnership structure might 
  be discussed at this meeting. It was decided to await the result of the wider 
  consultation with the community that is now occurring as part of the LSP architecture 
  reorganisation. </p>
<p>Marion emphasised the need for the community to respond to questionnaires about 
  the structure of CEP, the report on the structure of Townships, terms of reference 
  etc</p>
<p>Pam reflected that very early on in the development of the CEN programme a 
  decision was made by members to exclude councillors from network meetings. At 
  the time it was felt that councillors had many opportunities for involvement 
  through various bodies attached directly to the council and its business. However, 
  having given consideration to the current Mayor and Cabinet structure, many 
  councillors are unable to congruously engage with communities through their 
  'official' role. It was suggested that councillors be invited to attend future 
  All Network meetings in an effort to raise awareness of the networks and the 
  work they do but also to break down the last bastions of 'them and us' culture 
  so we can genuinely promote partnership working in the future.</p>
<p>Date of Next Meeting: The next meeting will be held on the 7th July 2008 at 
  Ince Community Centre 10am - 12noon. </p>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
