<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
Minutes of Encompass meeting held at The Grange Community Centre Marus Bridge 
18/02/2009
<p>Present: Carol Watson (Chair), Irene Yates (Disability), Clare Brennan (Over 
  50's), Joe Taylor (Heritage)</p>
<p>Apologies: Pam Stewart (Hon Member), Khaled Amini (BME), Marion Andrews BWCN.</p>
<p>Acknowledgement of Carol Watson:</p>
<p>At this year's WBP convention, Carol Watson was acknowledged as being a 'community 
  hero' by a vote of attendees present, due to her commitment, over the years, 
  to the community. Pam Stewart had proposed that we recognise Carol's commitment 
  by making her an honorary life member of Encompass. Clare Brennan seconded Pam's 
  proposal and it was unanimously agreed. </p>
<p>Minutes 02.02.09: </p>
<p>True and accurate Clare/Irene, passed</p>
<p>Matters Arising:</p>
<p>Joe reported that he and Khaled had undertaken half a day's webpage maintaincence 
  training on Sunday 15th Feb with RBC, the company that hosts our webpage.</p>
<p>Carol is trying to arrange half a day's finance training for Irene and Khaled. 
  As Joe is now treasurer for Heritage Network he should attend that that session, 
  if possible.</p>
<p>BWCN have received the funding they were awarded at the PB event.</p>
<p>W&amp;LDF need their check from the PB event. Khaled and Joe will collect as 
  soon as possible. </p>
<p>Joe has been unable to locate the savings book for the original account. He 
  can ask the bank for a copy of the records as Irene has the original roll number.</p>
<p>Carol has confirmed with Sian Jay that all Encompass members can attend the 
  R2I meeting 24th Feb at Robin Park, providing she is informed beforehand of 
  the numbers.</p>
<p>Irene compared the terms offered by Keegan Pennykid and Landbrooks regarding 
  insurance for Tudor House and proposed we take Public Liability, Employers Liabilty 
  and Contets insurance with Landbrooks. Clare seconded and the proposal was accepted.</p>
<p>Financial Update &amp; Related Matters:</p>
<p>Pam and Joe attended a Learning Exchange Seminar at Crewe 18th Feb, arranged 
  by North West Together We Can. Joe gave the train tickets to the treasurer for 
  future reimbursement and a request from ENTA for &pound;25, for a meeting venue 
  paid 'out of pocket' that needs reimbursing. It was agreed that networks seeking 
  reimbursements from Encompass should provide invoices. It was agreed that a 
  cheque for &pound;25 be sent to the person concerned, Mike Scairsbrick. It was 
  agreed that Irene purchase a visitor's book and an appointments book for Tudor 
  House and that henceforth a float of &pound;200 should be kept for petty cash. 
  Joe had to pay for the quarter page newspaper adverts in the Reporter and the 
  Evening Post by credit card, due to the time restriction. The invoice from Lancashire 
  Publications will be made out to Encompass.</p>
<p>The Next Ascend Meeting - Update:</p>
<p>Carol reported on her conversation with Amanda Greenwood regarding the program 
  for the Ascend meeting 25th February. The aim is to get active community people 
  engaged with councillors and those officers involved with community engagement 
  on the topic of community development. Committee room B seats 40 people comfortably 
  so a mix of 20 community people and 20 others would be idea. Network leads were 
  asked to direct members to the Ascend page of the website, which has a link 
  to the program and a form to indicate interest in attendance.</p>
<p>Tudor House - Progress Report:</p>
<p>The office furniture is now in place and the premises is close to being ready 
  for permanent occupation. The next step to be dealt with regards the communication 
  system - telephones and Internet access. Phil Hurst has arranged for Kevin Sutton 
  to be at Tudor House tomorrow to give advice. Joe, Clare, Marion and Irene will 
  meet him there, consider all factors and decide on the right course of action.</p>
<p>SHIP Event In Atherton 3 June:</p>
<p>Clare reported that Over Fifties Forum have been invited to take a stall at 
  <br>
  the SHIP event on 3rd June at a donation cost of &pound;50. She proposed that 
  <br>
  Encompass takes a stall and that all the networks share the display and <br>
  &quot;manning&quot; it. Members thought that this would be an ideal showcase 
  for the <br>
  work of Encompass and its constituent networks at a very low cost. Clare was 
  <br>
  asked to arrange this. The theme this year is multiculturalism. Clare <br>
  suggested that we ask Khaled if his network would like us to help us to <br>
  achieve this via costumes and so on. Clare's trustees might wish to have a <br>
  stall for themselves as this is an event targeting older people but this was 
  <br>
  a decision for them to make.</p>
<p></p>
<p><br>
  AOB:</p>
<p>Clare proposed that if a network is under threat then all its constituent <br>
  networks should come together to take united action if asked to do so. All <br>
  agreed that protecting a Forum should be part of the Encompass remit. The <br>
  motion was carried.</p>
<p>It was suggested that network leads might include the Encompass Logo on outward 
  correspondence to members, to indicate that their network is affiliated to Encompass 
  and include the web address. All agreed that this was a good idea. Clare said 
  that said that she would do this as soon as she has set up email addresses for 
  her Forum i.e. when she is not using her personal email, which should be for 
  family and friends only</p>
<p>Next Meeting: To be arranged.</p>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
