<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
(20th June 2005, Wigan &amp; Leigh CVS) <br>
Present: Pam Stewart (Borough Wide Community Network), Geoff Roberts (Over 50s 
Forum), Mo Burgess (Voluntary Sector Network), Rev Tim Hall ( Wigan Borough Faith 
Network), Shafa Ullah (BME Network)<br>
In attendance: Mike O'Brien (DVC), Simon Dale (Community Engagement), Katy Crowson 
(Wigan &amp; Leigh CEP), Nick Trotter ( Wigan &amp; Leigh CVS)<br>
Apologies: Borough Wide Youth Council, Wigan &amp; Leigh Disability Forum, Sian 
Jay (Township Programme)<br>
Minutes: Katy<br>
1). Minutes of the last meeting: Accepted as a true record. Proposed by Pam, seconded 
by Geoff.<br>
2). Matters Arising: Discussion around getting DVC application forms on line to 
encourage people to download them.<br>
General debate around changing of grant giving structures at a local level.<br>
Cancel 4th July meeting, next meeting 22nd August 2005 at the Queens Hall.<br>
3). Finance Update: Community Chest and Learning &amp; Skills paid up front each 
quarter. Spending on target, neighbourhood level activity mainly covers staff 
time on work around local Faith Networks, the Rock Bus project and other links 
to Township work. Outreach and development figure is reached at by adding together 
CEN and neighbourhood activity and then taking away management and admin and staffing 
costs.<br>
4). Service Level Agreements: Draft agreement with Over 50s Forum presented to 
group. Debate around whether the SLA would work without having money attached 
and possible benefits of having this sort of formal relationship between Networks 
and Encompass. Feeling that it contained the right amount of information, all 
present were in favour. <br>
ACTION - Katy to look into possibility of developing further documents setting 
out relationships. To get Over 50s SLA signed off as soon as possible.<br>
Draft Encompass / CVS SLA presented to group. Discussion around whether enough 
detail on who makes decisions -is this the SLA or terms of reference. Who is the 
parent and who is accountable for spend?<br>
Talked about idea brought up around mutual promotion, are members of Networks 
automatically members of CVS and should they be? A general debate followed. Some 
groups may want to get involved with one but not the other. CVS will be updating 
contacts and checking membership soon. In addition some felt that there needed 
to be some mention of responsibility of Network members to attend Encompass meetings.<br>
ACTION - Katy tasked with looking into possibilities and fitting this in somewhere. 
<br>
5). Local Area Agreements: All about increasing the voice and potential for local 
people to influence decision making, looking at how this will be achieved and 
monitored. Some number crunching is important but there also needs to be an opportunity 
to examine people's perception of influence. Performance Management Framework 
undertaken yearly is a self survey if partnership members. Other useful sources 
for baselines are the residents survey, citizens panel and township analysis. 
Extra resources will be made available via Local Area Agreements. All of the work 
fits with the general theme around community empowerment.<br>
Discussion around whether people are involved in decision making or influence. 
The sector is developing and representation has developed alongside this. People 
have more confidence to raise issues. People seem to be listening more. Barriers 
are breaking down. There is access to people.<br>
Need to think about appropriate indicators. Are we measuring influence or impact 
on decision making? The group talked about the fact that conflict and tension 
exist between elected and participatory democracy and central and local government. 
Many become disillusioned because it is influence and not decision making, very 
often people like to see how they are moving and impacting on the way resources 
are used. All agreed that indicators needed to focus on a mixture of these things.<br>
ACTION - Katy to resend questions linked to delivery plan for all to re-examine, 
do these questions cover the question of influence and decision making sufficiently? 
Everyone to bring comments to the next session.<br>
6). Substitutes: All present were reminded that it was their responsibility to 
ensure that nominated substitutes details were forwarded to the CEP team. Links 
to discussion earlier around SLA 's - could include something around attendance 
at Encompass by Networks. To use language like 'make every effort', but also need 
to communicate the importance of their presence and responsibilities around this.<br>
Debate around mechanisms for feeding back content of Encompass meetings.
<p>ACTION - Katy to get page on website that reads Encompass met on &#133;&#133;, 
  minutes to follow, these people were present.<br>
  7). Douglas Valley grants: Application forms were not ready in April, May only 
  1 application was received, but it was not completed sufficiently to go before 
  the panel.<br>
  Quarter 1 (April-June): Community Chest allocation &pound;36,000, spend &pound;9,045 
  <br>
  Learning &amp; Skills allocation &pound;8,000 + &pound;8,000 from DVC, spend 
  &pound;8,710<br>
  Therefore there is hefty budget for Quarter 2. Some concerns expressed about 
  the lack of spend, hopefully it will pick up in Quarter 2, but we all have a 
  responsibility to encourage applications. Main grants programme is no longer 
  available so this may lead to more applications. Feeling like a lot of the applications 
  do not meet Neighbourhood Renewal targets very effectively, need to encourage 
  greater innovation and excitement. One of the complaints is 'it's the same old 
  people' - need to encourage greater competition for the money. Talked about 
  the fact that people doing a good job should not be punished, scoring allows 
  for a group to score badly in terms of number of previous applications and still 
  be awarded high scores overall. Needs to be some flexibility. The need for a 
  group to have a constitution has also been changed, now a group of local people 
  could come together for a one off project which would be funded.<br>
  Talked about changes to the grant programme. Katy, Mike and Anne Roberts spent 
  a lot of time looking at application forms and tying them to Neighbourhood Renewal 
  more effectively. Grant panels merged recently. Needed a process that would 
  ensure that the community was still involved in making decisions, but which 
  also kept time spent at meeting of grant panel to a minimum. Score card devised, 
  community members will take it in turns to decide scores, taken to panel with 
  a recommendation, but comments / changes can still be made.<br>
  All present were given copies of the scorecard, as its content relate directly 
  to the applications guidelines it was felt that it did not need to be made public. 
  Good levels of feedback will also be given to groups who are turned down, and 
  they will have the option of a rewrite. DVC will produce a quarterly breakdown 
  of areas and themes as discussed previously. We need to get better at promotion 
  of bids from priority areas.<br>
  General discussion around public liability. <br>
  ACTION - Katy and Mike to meet to discuss increasing publicity of the scheme. 
  All to inform them of possible ideas ASAP. Simon to call a meeting around public 
  liability and include Encompass reps in invite.</p>
<p>Talked about the Children, Young People and their Families (CYPF) work, they 
  are looking at developing closer ties with the voluntary / community sector. 
  It has been suggested that they give grant aid to groups who are hitting some 
  of the specific CYPF targets. Grassroots developments need to be more effectively 
  supported; representatives from the Networks need to be pushing for this to 
  happen more.<br>
  8). Communications Group: Big success of the group was Untitled News, funding 
  for printing of this still came from CEP budget. Encompass were informed that 
  following a number of letters and requests for information, a report on the 
  work of the group had been received. A cheque for &pound;1,819.20 was also returned 
  as money unspent in the year 1 st April 2004- 31 st March 2005 .<br>
  Need to move forward from this and learn from it too. Need for a more creative 
  and structured approach to communication across all parts of the Local Strategic 
  Partnership.<br>
  9). General update:<br>
  Over 50s Forum - work on Shakerley with local schools in organising a walk down 
  memory lane, may be rolled out to other areas. Successful AGM held. Planning 
  around return visit by group from Angers . Looking at making meetings more accessible 
  to under 65s, will try out an evening meeting so that people in work have an 
  opportunity to attend.<br>
  BWCN - Need to do more work on increasing number of active members. Received 
  funding from Local Network Fund to run a series of sessions of the Rock Bus 
  Project across the Borough. Liaised with Community Safety and Positive Futures 
  teams and using their identified hotspot areas of Ince, Lowton, and Hindley. 
  Will look at developing plans so that some sort of provision can continue once 
  funding runs out. Developed a presentation to take to a full council meeting.<br>
  Youth Council - Hopefully be putting in a funding application soon for training 
  around Youth Parliament. An action plan has been drawn up to tie into CEP objectives 
  - includes completing a survey of the community / voluntary sector to see how 
  they currently involve young people, to be followed up by training.<br>
  VSN - Interesting meeting around health issues at the last meeting, next meeting 
  on the 5 th July to look at super output areas. Now set aside time at each meeting 
  for people to network with one other organisation. Business in the Community 
  interested in making more links to the sector so they will also be at the next 
  session.</p>
<p>Faith Network - There was a really good turn out at last meeting which focused 
  on mental health services in the Borough. The non-executive director representing 
  faith also talked about his role. Good balance of gender. The local Faith Networks 
  are developing; Wigan , Hindley and Ashton all wanting to look at facilities 
  for young people.<br>
  BME Network - Adopted a constitution. Lots of smaller groups now developing 
  as a result of outreach and enthusiastic individuals - i.e. new asylum seeker 
  support group who organised a Cameroon Day which was well supported, support 
  for single mums. Looking at organising drop in's at other meetings to get views 
  of wider community.<br>
  Disability Forum - Recently held AGM. Number of new committee members. Hoping 
  to organise a series of events over coming months. Visiting Salford Disability 
  Forum to see how that works.<br>
  10). Any Other Business: Issues around young people continue to be a big issue 
  in the Borough, need for more of a focus on parenting. A general discussion 
  around changes in society followed.<br>
  Council are currently doing a review of community leadership - looking at how 
  the Council has changed, new partnership structures, townships etc. There will 
  be a session with elected members first and then workshops for partners and 
  other stakeholders. What will be the best way to engage with the Community Empowerment 
  Networks?<br>
  After a discussion it was agreed that workshops open to all Networks should 
  be arranged, if this does not give a good enough spread of communities then 
  individual Networks should be approached.<br>
  11). Date and Time of the Next Meeting: Monday 22 nd August 2005 at 2pm at the 
  Queens Hall, Market Street , Wigan . reet , Leigh..<br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
