<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
Minutes of the Encompass meeting Held on Friday 20th July 2007 <br>
At the Old Bluecoat School building, Wigan
<p>1. Present</p>
<p>Tim Hall (Faith), Sian Jay (Community Engagement), Nick Trotter (Wigan &amp; 
  Leigh CVS), Clare Brennan (Over 50s Forum), Phil Hirst (BWCN), Emma Scott (CEP), 
  Andrew Heathman (CEP), Joe Taylor (Heritage) - Tim Hall agreed to Chair this 
  meeting.</p>
<p>2. Apologies</p>
<p>Mo Burgess (Vol. Sector), Marion Andrews (BWCN), Simon Dale (Community Engagement), 
  Carol Watson (BWCN), Avis Freeman (ETNA), Ann Speers (Disability Forum), David 
  Speers (Disability Forum)</p>
<p>3. Minutes of the previous meeting (12/06/2007)</p>
<p>Item 5 - Sian Jay corrected the wording to &quot;….various strands of
  work are being undertaken to enhance the diversity and equality policies to 
  achieve higher standards for the Council and its services&quot; </p>
<p>The minutes were otherwise agreed as an accurate record of the previous meeting.</p>
<p>4. Terms of Reference</p>
<p>There was considerable discussion about the revised Terms of Reference; members 
  who were present at the previous meeting and at this meeting explained that 
  there were two areas of concern with the document.<br>
  <br>
  Under the Objectives section of the document:<br>
  <br>
  (a) Point 1 &quot;Management Committee&quot; should be altered to &quot;Steering 
  Group&quot;. This was agreed.</p>
<p> Point 6 &quot;To direct funding allocated….&quot;<br>
  <br>
  There was considerable discussion about whether Encompass would ever be in a 
  position to direct all funding supporting community empowerment and community 
  engagement. The majority felt this was unrealistic as there was no legal requirement 
  of organisations to ask Encompass' opinion of how they should do community involvement.</p>
<p>It was recommended to change this section &quot;To direct funding allocated…&quot;
  <br>
  To read:<br>
  &quot;To influence, be commissioned by and share knowledge with organisations 
  responsible for community engagement and empowerment, in order that opportunities 
  for community involvement are maximised&quot;.</p>
<p>This led to further discussion that attempted to clarify the future role of 
  Encompass and its relationship with the CEP (staff and resources) and Wigan 
  &amp; Leigh CVS. In summary members agreed that assuming funding became available, 
  Encompass could in theory chose a responsible body and set up a service level 
  agreement with that body, which would detail that Encompass would strategically 
  direct the networks and the responsible body would be able to employ staff and 
  make decisions on day to day spend, although each network would have a say in 
  expenditure for its own purposes. </p>
<p>In theory there would always be the potential for Encompass to choose a different 
  responsible body, however for the present time it was assumed the body would 
  be Wigan &amp; Leigh CVS, as this relationship was already in place &amp; offered 
  economies of scale around running costs, etc.</p>
<p>It was also recognised there was not an expectation that W&amp;L CVS should 
  pursue funding for the continuation of the networks, if Encompass members did 
  not made that decision in the near future.</p>
<p>After much debate, the members present came to the conclusion that the 2 outstanding 
  aspects of disagreement in the Objectives section should be put to a vote of 
  Encompass members:</p>
<p>Therefore members are asked to comment by 20th August 2007 on the following:</p>
<p>1) Should Encompass aim to be the clearinghouse for all 'community engagement' 
  initiatives that are considered for the borough, prior to their implementation?</p>
<p>2) Should Encompass aspire to being a fund-holding body i.e. become constituted 
  as a legal entity?</p>
<p> (b) Tim Hall proposed that the paragraph under the Equal Opportunities section 
  saying, &quot;Encompass recognises that Wigan Borough is made up of many different 
  communities………….&quot; should be incorporated in the &quot;Aims&quot;
  clause, as it would be more powerful there.</p>
<p>(c) Communication Policy - </p>
<p>Omit the words &quot;constant&quot; (line 1) and replace with &quot;regular&quot; 
  and omit &quot;immediately&quot; (line 3) and replace with &quot;as soon as 
  is practical&quot;</p>
<p>5. Communications Policy </p>
<p>This was agreed apart from one minor alteration under &quot;informal communication&quot; 
  - point 4 - change &quot;Any methods to &quot;A range of methods of improving 
  communications…&quot; </p>
<p>6. Local Area Agreement (LAA)</p>
<p>The Local Area Agreement is a way of bringing together targets and activities 
  in a borough so that every organisation involved has a responsibility for improving 
  the quality of life in an area. Wigan's agreement is due to be revised in the 
  near future.</p>
<p>In each LAA document there is a section about &quot;community involvement&quot; 
  but it needs to be more specific about how this is going to be achieved. Funding 
  for this may be ring-fenced as it has been in the past.</p>
<p>Sian Jay explained that this needs to be in place for 1st April 2008 but the 
  first meeting with Government Office is scheduled for September 2007 and 35 
  targets for the Wigan MBC will be identified. Currently it is not known if any 
  of these will relate to community engagement. <br>
  Nick suggested that there could be more emphasis on &quot;Improving Healthier 
  Lifestyles&quot; within targets set for the Borough and within community engagement/community 
  empowerment initiatives. </p>
<p>Until now Marion Andrews has been involved as a community representative on 
  the LAA group. It was proposed that Encompass write a formal letter to ask how 
  and when they might be involved in the LAA process. Emma agreed to write a draft 
  letter for circulation and comment before it is submitted.</p>
<p>7. Urban Forum conference reports</p>
<p>Emma brought copies of reports received from delegates who attended the conference 
  in June 2007. These are to be circulated and to include examples of good practice 
  already being used in the borough.</p>
<p>8. Any Other Business</p>
<p>(1) Community Empowerment Networks (CEN) conference - Joe Taylor attended this 
  conference held in Nottingham. His answer to the question &quot;What was the 
  strongest part of your Community Empowerment Network?&quot; included being impressed 
  at the capacity of the people involved in it and the potential to access capacity 
  building opportunities e.g. The Foundation Degree in Community Governance that 
  he was taking which has proved invaluable. Joe has provided some notes to Emma, 
  which will be circulated shortly.<br>
  9. Future meeting dates The next All Members and All Networks meeting will take 
  place on Thursday 20th September 2007, 5pm at Ince Community Centre. <br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
