<html>
<head>
<title>Untitled Document</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
</head>

<body bgcolor="#FFFFFF" text="#000000">
22 May, Coops Business Centre, Wigan<br>
Present: George Wild (Leigh Lions / BWCN), Irene Nicholson (Gin Pit Homewatch 
/ BWCN), Peter Guy (Gin Pit Residents Association / BWCN), Toni Gallwey (After 
Adoption / VSN), Jean Stitt (Willow / VSN), Phil Hirst (Wigan Rotary / BWCN), 
Marion Andrews (Soroptimist International of Wigan / BWCN), Pat Walsh (St Pats 
Luncheon Club / BWCN), Del Foulkes (Pensioners Link / VSN), Jack Nuttall (Leigh 
Lions / BWCN), R Boylan (PPI Forum), Anne Deacon (Pensioners Link / VSN), Mary 
Sutton (Willow / VSN), Joe Taylor (Billinge History), Phil Milligan (Billinge 
History), Eileen Waldron (Higher Folds Community Centre / BWCN), Deborah Gent 
(ACE / VSN), Pam Stewart (Westleigh Community Partnership/ BWCN) <br>
In attendance: Katy Crowson (CEP), Andrew Heathman (CEP) <br>
Apologies: Nick Trotter (Wigan &amp; Leigh CVS / VSN), Mona Follows (Higher Folds 
/ BWCN), Sue Cartwright (Lowton &amp; Golborne Community Forum / BWCN), Jacqui 
Farrington (Higher Folds Tenants &amp; Residents / BWCN), Margaret McIntosh (Worsley 
Hall Tenants &amp; Residents / BWCN), Evelyn Smith (Shakerley Play / BWCN), Gill 
David (Turnpike Community Theatre / BWCN), Hazel &amp; Catherine Dixon (26 th 
Leigh Brownies / BWCN), Helen Cope (Friends of Fourways / BWCN) <br>
Minutes: Katy <br>
1). Minutes of the last meeting: Accepted as a true record. Proposed by Toni, 
seconded by Eileen. <br>
2). Matters Arising: 5 A Day - some told that this service had finished, yet in 
minutes of 9 th March it states that the project has been mainstreamed ACTION 
- Katy to find out. <br>
After Adoption attended Soroptimists event which was really useful in terms of 
networking and making new contacts, recommended that other groups attend if they 
do anything similar in the future.<br>
3). Representatives Feedback: <br>
Peter Guy - Environment &amp; Development - Lots of reports were handed out to 
those present - minutes of the last partnership meeting, the Local Transport Plan, 
amongst others. For a copy of any of these documents or for a summary please contact 
the team on 01942 686 234. All asked to read through paperwork any bring any issues 
to the attention of Peter so that he can take them forward to meetings. Each member 
of the partnership is given a one minute slot, Peter and Jacqui (who represents 
ETNA the Environment &amp; Transport Networkers Alliance) both used their slots 
to ask questions about the redevelopment of Bickershaw and about energy issues 
locally. <br>
A mission statement has been designed for the partnership. One of its aims is 
to reduce environmental damage caused by transport in the Borough, bus patronage 
has fallen by 7% since 1997, there are also high percentages of children getting 
driven to school when the journey is less than &frac14; mile. <br>
Peter has recently attended a number of conferences which have looked at domestic 
energy issues. Fuel costs will be rising as energy sources deplete and Peter is 
interested in what Wigan MBC are doing to deal with this situation, will rising 
costs be off set by rises in council tax? What energy saving strategy has the 
Local Authority adopted and are there options around alternative sources which 
could be introduced locally? The questions asked at the partnership session have 
led to this being made an agenda item at a future meeting. <br>
There was a discussion around recycling. Many felt the Borough still had a lot 
more scope for development in terms of services in this area. Green bins have 
been introduced, but not everywhere in the Borough, people also felt they were 
not appropriate for some homes, which may not have any garden space so would not 
produce any rubbish. Wigan &amp; Leigh CVS have arranged for a paper collection 
on Church Street even though they are not a domestic property. Anyone interested 
in this service should ring 01942 404364 and ask to have some cardboard bins and 
sacks delivered. <br>
ETNA (Environment &amp; Transport Networkers Alliance) have spent the last couple 
of meetings looking at the Bickershaw site, some concerns around impacts on traffic, 
damage to flora and fauna and other environmental issues. English Partnerships 
one of the partners in the scheme attended the last session to talk through concerns 
and will attend a future meeting in September to update the group on what's happening. 
<br>
Phil Hirst - Culture - The last meeting of this partnership was in February. The 
Chair is Trevor Barton from Wigan Sports Council; Councillor Brian Baldwin also 
sits on the group due to his portfolio around culture. The first sod has been 
turned for the swimming pool which will eventually replace the Atherton pool. 
New scheme introduced where anyone over 60 can go swimming for free, some felt 
this had not been publicised, others felt it had gone to a wide range of places. 
A discussion took place around how accessible free swimming was for children. 
Is this something the BWCN could take up and publicise? <br>
ACTION - Phil to investigate timings and to raise the point that lifestyle card 
needs publicising more. <br>
Mesnes Park - lottery bid gone in to improve and enhance resources available. 
Point made that disabled people can not currently access the disabled toilets 
due to the lack of a radar key; this has been taken up by the Wigan area Access 
Committee. <br>
Wigan Pier Quarter - starting to see a difference, the project will extend beyond 
Trencherfield Mill, other things will be done. Office World will be demolished 
to make way for a hotel and pub, the old Observer building will change. <br>
Talked about theatre - 3 years ago the Rotary Club did an appeal for a theatre, 
a firm from London who specialised in theatres were given the task of designing 
something, but this project was vying with others, similar story for Leigh, where 
a campaign group for a theatre has been set up with the backing of the local MP, 
Andy Burnham. Talked about whether there was a market for so many theatres. Trencherfield 
would be trying to bring professional shows to the Borough as well as about creating 
space for amateur groups to use, Wigan Little Theatre manage to sell most of their 
seats and this would continue, they are also doing lots of outreach work at the 
moment in various communities and this would continue. They have received funding 
till 2010 from Coalfields to work in communities. An outreach project which uses 
film is also due to come to the Borough, it's currently being tried in Little 
Hulton and then it will move to Higher Folds. <br>
The Way You Were will go and will be converted into workshops for painters, artists, 
metal workers. Unfortunately over the last year it lost 1.6 million, the steam 
engine on the ground floor will be maintained and some of the other items will 
be moved to other sites - possibilities around the History Shop (if this is the 
case, thought needs to go into making this a more accessible building). The school 
room will be no more. The old theatre is still complete although it closed a year 
ago, talked about the fact that the Jazz Festival needed a venue last year and 
this, and this year it has been forced to move outside of the Borough. Discussion 
about why this has happened, and that some negotiation should have been done, 
things not thought through, difficulties when buildings sold off to private developers, 
decreases power of Local Authority. Talked about a lack of strategic planning 
<br>
The old Town Hall in Wigan , 2 developers are interested in this site, so changes 
should be seen there in the future. Grand Arcade - 2 units remaining, BHS has 
been re-let and will be split into 3 units with 2 on Standishgate and 1 on the 
Galleries. Next is moving to the Grand Arcade. Debenhams has been re-let to Wilkinsons, 
no got anyone to let Boots yet - possibilities around splitting this into ground 
floor and top floor units. Looking at using whole of bottom of Market Gate for 
a retail consortium which would run the length of this area. <br>
Marion Andrews - Operations Group - The structure of the executive parts of the 
Local Strategic Partnership will be changing slightly over the next few months 
to better reflect local priorities. The last meeting was in January when the changes 
were discussed. <br>
Over the next month or so the Council are doing a Comprehensive Performance Assessment 
which is an audit of services. There is a focus on work around Children, Young 
People and their Families. A questionnaire will be sent out to partners and information 
about the process and questions will also be cascaded through a series of meetings. 
The Assessment has to be back with government by July so things will start to 
happen shortly. <br>
Neighbourhood Renewal Fund - lots of sessions have taken place on this recently, 
in future there will be a stronger link with hitting floor targets and focusing 
on the 10% most deprived super output areas. At the meeting on community development 
aspects a pot of money was discussed - Katy suggested each household receiving 
a sum of money rather than going down the route of commissioning and grant giving, 
didn't get a good response. Pam mentioned that this had been tried in Brighton 
&amp; Hove and that it had reduced crime by 72% and truancy by 48%. A decision 
was taken at the meeting about thematic partnerships using the money to do neighbourhood 
projects. <br>
Pam Stewart - Economic - Talked about rebranding of Wigan from 'pies to paella', 
went on a bus tour to see all of the developments that are taking place, included 
Bickershaw, Pier Quarter, Martland Mill and lots more. Talked about the fact that 
78% of businesses employ less than 10 people, that there are less start ups in 
the Borough than elsewhere but that there is also a higher success rate for people 
establishing new businesses. High percentages of incapacity claimants, lots of 
them aged 20-35. Looking at education programmes and re-skilling people. Small 
companies do mean that if it fails only a few people loose their job, in contrast 
to things like Littlewoods making 400 people redundant. Talked about loss of identity, 
lots of big name shops, lack of independent shops. Rent on Market Gate too high 
for small businesses. <br>
4). Any Other Business: State of the Borough presentation - this is taking place 
on 24 th May from 12 noon until 2pm at the Investment Centre, all are welcome 
to attend. To confirm please ring Nicola on 01942 776155.<br>
Wigan Council are setting up a Wigan Road Safety Forum with the aim of promoting 
everything with the potential to reduce road accidents and casualties across the 
Borough. They are looking for representatives from the community and voluntary 
sector, if anyone is interested please contact the CEP on 01942 686234. <br>
The BWCN has secured funding for 6 people to attend the next Urban Forum conference 
on 13 th and 14 th July at the Royal York Hotel, York, if interested please contact 
CEP on 01942 686234. The conference dinner takes place at the National Railway 
Museum . <br>
5). Date and Time of Next Meeting: Thursday 8 th June, 7-9pm at Ince Community 
Centre, focus on Goal 3 - 'High aspirations, education and skills', with the addition 
of a leaving do for Katy Crowson! So there will be food, I know try not to get 
too excited, you do need to let us know if coming so we can cater sufficiently.
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
