<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
22nd August 2005 , Queens Hall, Wigan
<p><br>
  Present: Pam Stewart (Borough Wide Community Network), Tim Hall (Faith Network), 
  Geoff Roberts (Over 50s Forum)</p>
<p>Apologies: Shafa Ullah (Black &amp; Minority Ethnic Network), Colin Greenhalgh 
  (Voluntary Sector), Mo Burgess (Voluntary Sector), Nick Trotter (Wigan &amp; 
  Leigh CVS), Sian Jay (Township Programme), Mike O'Brien ( Douglas Valley Community) 
</p>
<p>In attendance: Katy Crowson (Community Empowerment Programme), Deborah Lea 
  (Douglas Valley Community), Simon Dale (Wigan Council) </p>
<p>Minutes: Katy </p>
<p>It was agreed that the meeting should go ahead despite the lack of a quorum 
  and that the content be ratified at the next session. </p>
<p>1). Minutes of the last meeting: Accepted as a true record by Tim, seconded 
  by Geoff. </p>
<p>2). Matters Arising: Over 50s Service Level Agreement now signed off. </p>
<p>There was a brief discussion around substitutes. Named reps for BWCN, Voluntary 
  Sector, and Over 50s have been received. Disability Forum still needs to nominate 
  a rep to replace Janet. </p>
<p>Katy has proposed amendments to terms of reference to cover discussions regarding 
  responsibilities of Networks and Encompass; these will be voted on at the next 
  meeting, to be passed all voting members need to be present. </p>
<p>Katy had sent out Performance Management Framework / delivery plan questions. 
</p>
<p>Katy shared with meeting print off from website which highlights what Graham 
  has added in terms of attendance at Encompass. (Please see www.wiganvoices.com, 
  Encompass for info) </p>
<p>Katy and Mike have not met to discuss advertising grants as both been away 
  on holiday. Del and Graham are working on Win Win stories that could go in the 
  local press. There was some discussion about the need to target neighbourhoods 
  more effectively, Win Win stories may just bring in more of the same and not 
  innovation. Deborah commented that Douglas Valley discussing the idea of doing 
  an event covering what is eligible and how to fill in the forms. Need to target 
  gaps in applications. Pam suggested the idea of linking new applicants with 
  old. </p>
<p>ACTION - Katy to ask Del and Graham to find out if Win Win groups would be 
  prepared to help another group with application. </p>
<p>3). Service Level Agreements: Over 50s SLA has been signed off. The only change 
  was under point 2 of the first section - </p>
<p>Changed from 'attend any events as deemed necessary by CVS or CEP to advertise 
  / promote the Forum' To 'Attend any events as deemed necessary and approved 
  by both parties to advertise and promote the Forum'. </p>
<p>Service Level Agreement between CVS and Encompass - after a short discussion 
  it was agreed that the first paragraph be altered to read ' Wigan &amp; Leigh 
  CVS are the responsible body and are accountable for funding, operational matters 
  and budgets. The CEP team are CVS employees and are there to facilitate the 
  smooth running of the Programme. Encompass is the Governing Body and gives direction 
  and day to day support to the Programme.' Those present happy with remaining 
  content. </p>
<p>ACTION - To be voted on at the next meeting. </p>
<p>4). Douglas Valley Grants: There was a grant panel on Friday 19th August 2005 
  . A number of bids went forward; some were deferred as awaiting more information. 
  DVC have spent just over &pound;25,000 on Community Chest and approx &pound;23,000 
  on Community Learning Chest. Concerned that spent so little of budget, mainly 
  due to delay in guidelines being published and then carried over under spend 
  over each quarter as well as adding to it to. They have placed another order 
  for more application forms so they are out there its just waiting for completed 
  forms to arrive at the office. </p>
<p>Concern was expressed around the lack of development work going on in the Borough 
  in terms of supporting people to fill in applications. </p>
<p>5). Local Area Agreements: Still uncertainty locally as to how this will work. 
  The Team have received guidance on Safer Stronger Communities Fund which basically 
  talks about the fact that faith / BME and Community Empowerment Network members 
  should be involved in drawing up Local Area Agreements. Marion Andrews from 
  the BWCN has been at a number of meetings, as has Nick Trotter. It talks about 
  the need for a Statement of Community Involvement to be developed - this is 
  in a draft format and is out for consultation at present. </p>
<p>ACTION - Katy to send Statement of Community Involvement to members of Encompass. 
</p>
<p>The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister is keen to continue investing in Community 
  Empowerment Networks (point 45), and wants CEN's to coordinate community empowerment 
  activities. However they will need to show they are fit for purpose, money will 
  pay for a core staff team and it will be paid to Local Authorities. There are 
  four goals; reducing crime, creating more greener public spaces, building the 
  capacity of communities and increasing the role of neighbourhoods. Indicators 
  around this work of building capacities are on page 31. Annex 4 shows the funding 
  allocation for Wigan for 2006/07 as &pound;136,247 which is a cut to current 
  budget of around &pound;20,000 and does not include small grants. </p>
<p>ACTION - After some discussion it was agreed that Pam should draft a letter 
  to the LSP highlighting that we need assurances from the Board that the allocation 
  will be used for core costs of CEN and that this money will be piloted through 
  to CVS. The letter should also express concerns at the cutting of the small 
  grants budget and ask that the Board consider putting other monies aside to 
  cover this cut. As the meeting is not quorate the letter will be sent to all 
  members for comments and approval prior to being sent. Needs to reach the Board 
  for meeting on 5th September if possible. </p>
<p>The Neighbourhood Renewal budget for Wigan is set to increase. Originally it 
  had been thought that there would be big cuts so a sub group was set up to look 
  at how money could be used more effectively; a paper was produced for consultation. 
  Now that extra money coming still want to look at how it can be used more effectively. 
  Deadline for consultation is now end of September which means that Networks 
  can have a look. There is a need to be more creative, need a different way of 
  approaching the targeting of money, the gaps between best and worst areas continues 
  to grow despite investments over the last few years - what else should we be 
  doing, what might work now? </p>
<p>There is a need for some focus on environmental change, but also on the following 
  areas: </p>
<p>a). Worklessness - specifically unemployment rates for the Over 50s, BME communities, 
  lone parents, and people who are considered long term incapacity benefit claimants 
</p>
<p>b). Health statistics - particularly teenage pregnancy rates </p>
<p>c). Education - averages are good but there are pockets of poor performance 
</p>
<p>SOAs = super output areas - it is a geographical area, in the past it was districts 
  / wards / batches of polling houses, this is just the new way for government 
  to measure deprivation and it can be taken right down to street level information. 
</p>
<p>ACTION - All to think about Neighbourhood Renewal strategy, grant aid and neighbourhood 
  level work and feed comments into consultation process as well as ensuring wider 
  Network membership have the opportunity to input. </p>
<p>A general discussion around alcohol and drugs followed and about some of causes 
  and related issues. </p>
<p>ACTION - The team had discussions with Lead Officers about running some information 
  sessions on specific strategies / issues, so Alcohol &amp; Drugs strategy needs 
  to be added to this. </p>
<p>6). Performance Management Framework: All happy that original issues / questions 
  contained in delivery plan cover the requirements. Talked about possible ways 
  forward with this piece of work. Those present felt a questionnaire to Networks 
  and also partners would be useful, but that running a number of focus groups 
  with these two groups would provide more in depth feedback which would be helpful 
  for future planning. Focus groups should be facilitated by an independent person 
  who is well briefed and external. Nick is meeting with Katherine Fairclough 
  around measurements linked to Local Area Agreements - need to tie this work 
  together. </p>
<p>ACTION - Team to draft questionnaire and bring to next session. </p>
<p>7). The Future: General discussion about how people were feeling about membership 
  of group. Feeling that there was a need to elect a rotating chair, Pam volunteered 
  to Chair the next meeting. The idea of rotating minute taking amongst those 
  in attendance was discussed; this should exclude Network representatives as 
  it can hinder participation. </p>
<p>Discussed the issue of attendance and representation, felt it would be better 
  to invite 2 people from each Network to all meetings, as this would ensure all 
  Networks were represented at every meeting and would mean representatives were 
  up-to-date with what's going on rather than being 'dropped in it' for one particular 
  meeting. </p>
<p>Quite hard to keep track of what group has done, what decisions it has taken 
  and what impact those decisions have then had, need to spend some time thinking 
  about this at a future meeting. </p>
<p>ACTION - All substitutes to be invited to the next meting. Need to look at 
  changing terms of reference to incorporate this change to membership. </p>
<p>8). General Update: Over 50s Forum - 3 delegates attended the Centre for Intergenerational 
  Practice at Keele University, Helen Coffey did a presentation on work being 
  carried out in Wigan which was well received. Road shows finished, looking at 
  idea of doing similar work in sheltered housing or hospitals. Looking at other 
  options for short / long term funding as missed deadline for Lottery bid. Attended 
  North West Pensioners Forum where the failure of government or the opposition 
  to come up with a suitable strategy on pensions was discussed. There will be 
  a protest day across the country on October 12th. Held focus group which looked 
  at poverty, report will be written and available soon. </p>
<p>BME Network - nominated a representative to sit on the Health &amp; Social 
  Care Partnership. Lots of new groups sprouted from Network. Wigan and Leigh 
  Asylum Seeker Support group received funding to run English classes, computer 
  classes and football with support from Anna. The next meeting is looking at 
  the Community Plan and specific issues for BME communities. They also want to 
  develop a campaigning side to the Network against deportations. They are hoping 
  to get the Coalition Against Deportations along to a future meeting to give 
  advice on setting up local campaigns. </p>
<p>Borough Wide Community Network - Rock Bus has been a big success in the areas 
  of Ince, Hindley and Lowton. Only one complaint received about noise. Different 
  experiences in terms of support from Positive Futures and the local police. 
  Lots of applications for membership, Pam is membership secretary and does visits 
  to groups to talk about LSP and Network and how everything fits together. AGM 
  coming up where there will be another lot of voting for representatives and 
  Working Committee. Presentation for councillors is ready just waiting for a 
  date. Did survey on volunteer hours - almost &pound;2.6 million contributed 
  by members and that is a low estimate based on hours sent into the team. </p>
<p>Disability Forum - A lot of work has gone into trying to kick start this Forum, 
  to inspire new membership and take things forward. New committee formed who 
  are looking at publicity. Discussions at last meeting as to whether it was best 
  to disband the group and start again from fresh or just look at some sort of 
  re-launch, it was felt a re-launch would be more effective. Arranging for a 
  big event to take place in February of next year. All help appreciated with 
  publicising this group and strengthening it. </p>
<p>Youth Council - Questionnaire sent to all community groups asking them about 
  how they currently involve young people in their activities and planning and 
  asking about whether they would be interested in training around involving them 
  in the future. Still working on developing links to Township Youth Councils, 
  should be doing visits to these areas soon to sell the Borough Wide Youth Council. 
</p>
<p>Voluntary Sector Network - Last meeting looked at new statistics available 
  from the Council at a super output area. Next meeting focusing on the Community 
  Plan. </p>
<p>Faith Network - Next meeting beginning of September to look at the Community 
  Plan from a faith perspective, Martin Miller from Manchester Diocese is coming 
  to talk about this. Hoping for a good turn out, trying another evening session 
  to see if it works better than daytime. Township level faith networks still 
  meeting in Wigan and Leigh. Hindley and Ashton have not met for some time due 
  to holidays and Rock Bus activities - need to reschedule these soon. </p>
<p>Other Developments: </p>
<p>Running training on speed reading, speak up speak out which is about increasing 
  peoples confidence with public speaking, also doing sessions jointly with Lynn 
  Kay on what is an LSP, a Township and a Community Empowerment Programme. </p>
<p>The team are arranging a consultation event around Children, Young People and 
  their Families for 15 th September. Leisure and culture event to take place 
  on 12th October, looking like it will be a good session - peoples view of Wigan's 
  culture and about opportunities and barriers to getting more active in local 
  communities. There will be an environment based session on 24th October in the 
  hope of inspiring greater membership of ETNA (Environment and Transport Networkers 
  Alliance). Interesting meeting with Lead Officers where discussed getting minutes 
  from partnerships, idea of taster sessions on different strategies / issues 
  that would be open to Networks, time banking - way of paying back hours provided 
  by volunteers around partnership tables - will be having another session to 
  look at this in more detail. </p>
<p>9). Any Other Business: None </p>
<p>10). Date and Time of Next Meetings: Monday 3rd October 2005 , 9.30am at Wigan 
  &amp; Leigh CVS </p>
<p>Monday 21 st November, Queens Hall. Time to be decided after consulting with 
  members. </p>
<p>ACTION - Team to send tick box with times on for meeting on 21st November.<br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
