<html>
<head>
<title>Untitled Document</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
</head>

<body bgcolor="#FFFFFF" text="#000000">
Minutes of the Encompass Meeting<br>
held at The Grange Winstanley Wigan <br>
23rd September 2009
<p>Present: Chair Carol Watson BWCN; Vice Treasurer Khaled Amini BME; Over 50's 
  Clare Brennan, Elaine Jones; BWCN Phil Hirst Chair, Marion Andrews ; Pam Stewart 
  Hon Member</p>
<p>Apologies: Irene Yates Disability Forum; Andrew Heathman Disability Forum, 
  Joe Taylor Heritage Network</p>
<p>Meeting held at 10am for Network Representatives. <br>
  Feedback since previous meeting: The Chair reported that it would have been 
  preferable if all network representatives were present at this meeting to hear 
  the feedback and update since the last meeting at the same time. Despite many 
  efforts to arrange a meeting to accommodate this it was not possible to have 
  everyone together at one time. The Faith Network was scheduled to have a separate 
  meeting with Simon Dale, so Ray had not been pressured with this meeting in 
  addition, but the usual invite would go out to all future meetings.</p>
<p>After a short discussion it was agreed that all members and officers should 
  comply with the Code of Conduct at all times. In particular<br>
  &middot; All meetings should be advised to all members/representatives.<br>
  &middot; Any person, apart from the Chairperson, speaking on behalf of Encompass 
  should only do this with express consent following a meeting of Encompass.<br>
  &middot; A review of the Code of Conduct/Terms of Reference may be required. 
  <br>
  &middot; A review of procedures is required regarding IT/Website to protect 
  officers and members in accordance with normal business practice. <br>
  &middot; It was noted that it was possible for a person to belong to more than 
  one Network, however it is considered bad practice for a member of Encompass 
  to seek to influence the thinking in multiple Networks or to act as an unofficial 
  community development worker.<br>
</p>
<p>World in Wigan: A number of concerns had been raised re: WiW. The Chair had 
  attended a meeting with WiW, Simon Dale and Anne Roberts to try to clarify the 
  position. They have been coping well in difficult circumstances but it is obvious 
  that support is needed. Further meetings are being arranged. An update on this 
  will be given as soon as possible.</p>
<p>Disability Forum: Andrew Heathman, Treasurer W&amp;LDF, had sent a letter in 
  August but this had not been passed on until September as it had been sent to 
  the wrong building during the school holidays. The letter advised Encompass 
  that the project relating to the Accessible Transport Directory was now nearing 
  completion and that the monies allocated from the Participatory Budgeting meeting 
  last November were now required. Ashton Wigan and Leigh PCT had postponed the 
  deadline for the project until the end of this year. Members agreed that the 
  monies ring fenced for W&amp;LDF be transferred asap. </p>
<p>Report from Treasurer: Irene Yates has moved home and has forwarded an email 
  stating that, owing to personal circumstances, she would like to take a leave 
  of absence. She has decided to resign from the role of Treasurer to Encompass. 
  The bankbook is with the Vice Treasurer (KA) and all other documentation will 
  be passed over to Vice Treasure and Chair at a meeting to be arranged in the 
  near future. Members agreed to accept the notification of resignation as Treasurer 
  by email and would like to thank Irene for her work and continued support. </p>
<p>Update from W&amp;LDF: Andrew Heathman reported that the W&amp;LDF Constitution 
  will be on the web in approx. 4-6 weeks. W&amp;LDF are seeking funding to hold 
  meetings at St Peters Cricket Club, Hindley and carry out administration from 
  the ground floor at Tudor House. Tudor House is not totally accessible for some 
  members but we are aware that Tudor House has proposed a plan to remedy this 
  (subject to funding). --- A reminder that Tudor House have asked for letters 
  of support from the Networks to help further their application for funding for 
  the improved toilet facilities project.</p>
<p>Tudor House: BWCN have now had conversations with W&amp;LDF and can move forward 
  with application for funding from Grass Roots for running costs. CVS may have 
  funds to establish community hubs - Carol didn't think this was the case but 
  will speak with Pam Ball CVS and report to Phil Hirst asap. Encompass accounts 
  will be reviewed to determine 'general' funds. </p>
<p>AOB - Following a discussion regarding the Electoral College and Simon's suggestion 
  of extending the deadline until things were in place from both sides, it was 
  agreed that current representatives remain in situ until the Electoral College 
  arrangements have been finalised. Continuity of attendance is of utmost importance 
  during the negotiations.</p>
<p>Meeting at 11am regarding the Electoral College <br>
  Present as above and Simon Dale and Lynn Kay CEO Wigan Council. Apologies Pamela 
  Ball CVS ; Julie Ridgway BSC Wigan Council. (Ray Hutchinson Faith Network is 
  meeting with Simon Dale 24/9/09)</p>
<p>Minutes from the last meeting were agreed subject to amendment to include apologies 
  from Marion Andrews (given at the meeting but not recorded) and Clare Brennan 
  who had advised that she was on holiday. </p>
<p>Matters arising W&amp;LDF monies - Simon and Lynn were advised that Encompass 
  had agreed to pass on the monies from the participatory Budgeting exercise that 
  are being held on behalf of W&amp;LDF as these were now required to complete 
  the project for the Accessibility Transport Directory. Khaled Amini to action.</p>
<p>Community Representation: Following the recent restructuring in the Council 
  many changes are still taking place. Building Stronger Communities Partnership 
  are a little further on than some of the partnerships and have produced a proposal 
  for community representation and a document was tabled for discussion. Seven 
  delivery groups cover a range of topics and it is estimated that 7 community 
  representatives will be needed. Following discussion it was agreed that the 
  Cohesion, Engagement Quality and Diversity delivery group may need more than 
  one community representative due to the size and diversity of this particular 
  group. It was noted that Finance had not been included as a Delivery Group. 
</p>
<p>The Electoral College Summary document was tabled for discussion. In view of 
  the imminent changes in controlling budgets in all areas of local government 
  (ie commissioning) it is really important that a community voice is present. 
  The new system must be transparent. Representatives will need to have a mandate/constituency. 
  The actual mechanics of how to deliver the new system will need to be agreed.</p>
<p>Timescale - A number of tasks still need to be carried out -time will be required 
  to discuss and digest the information tabled today. Some Networks will need 
  to restructure; Encompass will need to make decisions on what role should be 
  taken. It was agreed that meetings will be arranged with the networks so that 
  Simon Dale and Carol Watson can share the thinking and put the proposals for 
  the Electoral College to the networks and also determine the level of support 
  required for each individual network. Network Leads to forward dates to Carol 
  asap in order that a schedule may be arranged.</p>
<p>Role Descriptions: Lynn Kay tabled a proposal for a role description. This 
  paper is only a starting point it is important that representatives feel comfortable 
  in the role and feel able to put a view forward. Support for the representative 
  and also organisations and networks will need to be considered in order ensure 
  there is sufficient knowledge/capacity to promote a confident and professional 
  image and working relationship.</p>
<p><br>
  Induction: Council Officers/Encompass will need to consider induction/training 
  procedures; consultation procedures; how to be visible and accessible; who should 
  deliver this; how and where and when training should take place.</p>
<p>Lines of communication: Encompass will need to consider how to cascade information 
  to members; be sure that members are aware of information; ensure that an effective 
  two way communication channel can be maintained with all agencies/Local Authority</p>
<p>Next meeting 20th October 2009 at 10.15am at The Grange Winstanley <br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
