<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
ENCOMPASS
<p>MINUTES OF THE MEETING HELD ON <br>
  10.00am MONDAY 25 FEBRUARY 2008 <br>
  AT INCE COMMUNITY CENTRE</p>
<p>1. Present</p>
<p>Carol Watson (BWCN), Tim Hall (Wigan Faith Network), Avis Freeman (ETNA), Marion 
  Andrews (BWCN)</p>
<p>In attendance: Andrew Heathman (CEP/CVS)</p>
<p>2. Apologies: </p>
<p>Pam Stewart (BWCN), Nick Trotter(CVS), Emma Scott (CEP/CVS), David Wilson (ETNA), 
  Jackie Roberts (ETNA)</p>
<p>Carol Watson agreed to Chair the meeting. <br>
  Minutes/notes: Andrew Heathman</p>
<p>3. Position of Secretary</p>
<p> Marion Andrews agreed to fill the vacancy of Secretary for Encompass in Joe 
  Taylor's prolonged absence.</p>
<p>4. Minutes of the previous meeting (14 January 2008)</p>
<p>Item 3 - concerning the &quot;sub-group&quot;. This meeting has not been arranged 
  due to other commitments of those supposed to attend.<br>
  ACTION: NT/ES/PS/IY/CW to arrange to meet before the next official Encompass 
  meeting.</p>
<p>5. Esmee Fairbairn Foundation - funding application</p>
<p>No further news at the time of this meeting.</p>
<p>6. CEP funding and related issues raised in discussion.<br>
  No further details are available at the moment over the announced 6 months extension 
  to fund the CEP.<br>
  Other comments and issues related to this included:<br>
  (1) Carol raised the matter of their being no clarification from Wigan Council 
  of funding for Townships, PACTS or how the structures of the LSP, LAA, Thematic 
  Partnerships will be changed to incorporate the work of the CEP networks, both 
  existing and potentially new work, for the 6 months extension of CEP funding.<br>
  (2) Tim Hall stated that the perception is from the community point of view, 
  that the Council has little or no understanding of what it wants to achieve, 
  or how to achieve it, concerning community involvement and engagement and is 
  only &quot;looking for ways to tick boxes to achieve government targets&quot;. 
  There is a complete lack of clarity of where and how the networks &quot;fit 
  in&quot; to any proposed new LSP structures.<br>
  (3) Where is the process for communication and engagement? These are absent 
  from any new published &quot;diagrams&quot; of the LSP etc.<br>
  (4) 2 separate &quot;value bases&quot; between the council and the community 
  - no work to ensure they come together for the benefit of the borough, just 
  a cosmetic exercise.<br>
  (5) The &quot;Social Identities&quot; model won't work as it has not been thought 
  through, it is not mutually exclusive and there are too many measures and variables. 
  You don't need networks for this model. They are artificially created and won't 
  &quot;fit&quot; any better than existing networks of community interest, which 
  at least has a role of involvement in decision-making and policy development.<br>
  (6) A plan to reduce community development activity in the borough - the Council 
  does not want the community to be active in Council affairs, just a method to 
  tick a box and earn government &quot;brownie points&quot;<br>
  (7) The Community Networks provide valuable, varying and different perspectives 
  from communities of interest that has gone unrecognised by the Council who are 
  only interested in the &quot;exclusive&quot; perspectives of Townships with 
  their own interests to protect.<br>
  (8) The LSP and Council only want community involvement from people who won't 
  challenge poor practice within the LSP and Council decision making processes.<br>
  (9) The huge amount of work from all the volunteers within the community networks 
  is totally under-valued and under resourced by the LSP and Council officers, 
  regarding them as a hindrance and not partners.</p>
<p>It was agreed to arrange an urgent &quot;special&quot; Encompass meeting to 
  get some answers to questions that the LSP and Council need to answer. This 
  can only be done when the Council has clarified what it actually wants.</p>
<p>ACTION: CEP to co-ordinate date for the next meeting.</p>
<p> <br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
