<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
Minutes of Encompass meting held at The Grange 26/08/2009<br>
Present: Carol Watson (Chair Hon Member), Pam Stewart (Hon Member), Elaine Jones 
(Over 50's), Khaled Amini, (BME) Joe Taylor (Heritage), Phil Hurst (BWCN) 
<p>Lynn Kay, Anne Roberts, Julie Ridgway &amp; Simon Dale (WBC), </p>
<p>Pamela Ball (CVS).</p>
<p>Apologies: Jeanne Fieldhouse (Disability)</p>
<p>The Electoral College: how &amp; when should it operate?</p>
<p>Simon Dale introduced the topic, outlining the key issues regarding how community 
  representatives might be selected to all levels of the LSP. Under the old system, 
  community representatives were elected at the BWCN AGM. Under a new proposed 
  Electoral College system, the various Partnerships will be more explicit about 
  their representation requirements. Encompass and the Community Network will 
  work with the Partnerships to select the right persons to the right places - 
  an appointment rather than an election.</p>
<p>Current community representative positions expire in November. The plan is 
  for Encompass and the Partnerships to work together on the process, with the 
  help of the Community Network' and CVS databases, to help publicise opportunities 
  so that selection could occur within the required time frame. With the channel 
  established, Encompass would fulfil the role of clearing house. </p>
<p>Simon expressed the opinion that, from a LSP perspective, it was essential 
  that any network representative be a member of a group (with a clear constituency). 
  He said it was not appropriate for the LSP to have sole individuals operating 
  as community representatives. Pam Stewart and Carol Watson agreed, although 
  Pam did make the point that some work needs to be done to engage with individuals 
  in the Borough.</p>
<p>Carol asked if the Partnerships have the 'job descriptions' ready for circulation. 
  Lynne Kay responded, saying that different Partnerships were in different positions 
  but that her department is working actively on the matter, as dictated by the 
  November time requirement.</p>
<p>Khaled emphasised the need for clarity of the role required in the 'job descriptions' 
  so that those people who put themselves forward understood what they were committing 
  themselves to.</p>
<p>Julie suggested that nurturing was essential, that once an interest had been 
  generated within a community member, it was important of match the right person 
  with the right opportunity. </p>
<p>Pamela Ball spoke about the role of CVS and her commitment to supporting community 
  groups and organisations, such as Encompass. She suggested that CVS could help 
  support the members of groups that get appointed to representative roles within 
  the LSP, support groups with development and infrastructure needs and communicate 
  with the groups via attending network meetings or passing on information to 
  CVS members</p>
<p>Julie asked about an induction procedure and how it might best be provided.<br>
  The question was raised as to whether or not the existing community networks, 
  within the Community Network, would able to populate all the vacancies that 
  might be required within the LSP architecture. </p>
<p>Simon said that he had been made aware that a number of the networks had been 
  experiencing some issues with their ongoing work. He also noted some concern 
  that over 50% of the short term funding that had been allocated to the networks 
  appeared to be still unspent and that this might indicate that the networks 
  were not as active as anticipated or planned. </p>
<p>Phil Hirst updated the position with BWCN &amp; the new LGBT network, Elaine 
  Jones regarding Over 50's, Joe Taylor regarding Environment &amp; Heritage Network 
  and his understanding of the Disability Network, after speaking to the vice 
  chair and Khaled Amini updated the position regarding the BME, World in Wigan, 
  SWAP, LASARS &amp; Lancs. Kurdish Cultural Association</p>
<p>Pam Stewart expressed her concern regarding the degree of community development 
  that was occurring within the Borough.</p>
<p>There appeared to be a shared view that the networks did need further support 
  and development. Pamela reiterated her earlier offer that CVS was wiling to 
  provide support to small groups who might then be part of the networks. </p>
<p>There was a proposal to convene and ASCEND meeting and for the Electoral College 
  and partnership representation offer to be shared more widely.<br>
  Simon commented that it was not possible for the electoral college offer to 
  be made to an open ASCEND meeting as it was likely to cause confusion to participants 
  attending the meeting who might not be eligible to participate in the electoral 
  college. </p>
<p>Simon said that he felt that the position with the networks needed to be further 
  clarified and that individual sessions with Networks convened in September / 
  October in order to explain the options and promote participation in the Electoral 
  College. </p>
<p>The next step will be that Pamela Ball, Julie Ridgway and Lynne Kay will get 
  together to develop the 'job descriptions' for the Partnerships and the same 
  group as today will meet at The Grange, Tuesday 22nd September at 11.00. </p>
<p>The community representatives stayed to discuss a number of items including 
  Tudor House and Encompass' financial position.</p>
<p>Encompass had agreed to pay the lease on Tudor House for the first six months, 
  until the individual Networks were able to support themselves. The initial period 
  is now up and the position needs to be looked at afresh.</p>
<p>The Over 50s Forum is considering extending their lease. The BWCN are in a 
  position to pay for all of their meetings as a result of the Flower Power Funding. 
  The BWCN and the Disability Forum are working together to put in a bid for funding 
  for 12 months rent for their office space. The Heritage Network is in a position 
  to pay for their meetings there. </p>
<p>It would appear to be impractical from an economic point of view for Encompass 
  to continue funding the entire lease. If the other Networks would like Encompass 
  to make a contribution then the degree of use and the practicality of the building 
  would have to be considered. Pam asked that the Networks provide details of 
  usage to be available for consideration. In the meantime Joe would explain Encompass' 
  position to Tudor House at the same time as he was speaking to them about the 
  Heritage Network.</p>
<p>Due to family/personal problems, Irene, our Treasurer has been unable to attend 
  meetings for some time. Unfortunately this is putting us in an unfortunate position 
  re: frequency of financial updates, opening of a new/better bank account and 
  providing financial feedback to the Council for the Grant received.</p>
<p>After due consideration it was decided that Khalid, as Vice Treasurer, and 
  Carol, as Chair should meet with Irene to determine the way forward. </p>
<p>Next Meeting: </p>
<p>Same group as today to meet at The Grange, Tuesday 22nd September at 11.00 
  <br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
