<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
(Monday 28 November 2005 at Ince Town Hall Annexe)
<p></p>
<p>Present: Rev Tim Hall (BW Faith Network) Simon Dale (Community Engagement) 
  Harry Kedward (Over 50s Forum) Shafa Ullah (BME Network) Michaela Neild (Youth 
  Parliament) Katy Crowson (CEP) Andrew Heathman (CEP) Nick Trotter (CVS) Paul 
  Burton (Disability Forum) Mike O'Brien (Douglas Valley)</p>
<p>Apologies: Geoff Roberts (Over 50s Forum) Sian Jay (Township Programme) Mo 
  Burgess (Voluntary Sector Network) Colin Greenhalgh (Voluntary Sector Network) 
  Marion Andrews (BW Community Network), Pam Stewart (Community Network)</p>
<p>Chair: Katy Crowson</p>
<p>Minutes: Andrew Heathman</p>
<p>1 Minutes of the last meeting (3/10/2005) were agreed. Proposed/seconded by 
  Tim Hall</p>
<p>2 Matters arising</p>
<p>(1) Re: item 5 Simon Dale reported that are proposals for changes of how community 
  grants may be funded next year</p>
<p>3 Performance Management Framework</p>
<p>The contents of the questionnaire was agreed and this will be distributed to 
  all of the networks</p>
<p>SD What do we need to do in the next 6 months to build the link between community 
  empowerment networks and the Board to demonstrate the need for the role of specialist 
  development work that brings added value.</p>
<p>NT To make sure community empowerment is still the most relevant and effective 
  way for a borough-wide community voice</p>
<p>To try to ensure that the accountable body is independent, non-council and 
  non community specific</p>
<p>SD suggested that the options for the accountable body could be the Council, 
  Encompass, other Voluntary Sector agencies. He stated that the LSP is set up 
  to get more local people involved in decision making and Tim added that the 
  process was intended to extend democracy and operate in the best interests of 
  the community</p>
<p>KC There is a need to produce a plan that proposes an option for the new accountable 
  body and this should be reported to the Wigan Borough Partnership Board for 
  discussion. Katy reminded the meeting of the terms of reference. </p>
<p>Action: it was agreed by the meeting that Katy will provide a draft framework 
  document that will be on the agenda for discussion at the next meeting</p>
<p>4 Programme update</p>
<p>(1) New staff have been appointed. Andrew Heathman is the new Development Worker 
  and Kathleen Clarke will start in January 2006 as the new Administrator</p>
<p>(2) A funding bid is being submitted to employ a new full time development 
  worker for Faith communities</p>
<p>(3) The updated delivery plan is to be distributed</p>
<p>(4) Positive Futures are looking at provision for young people linked to sports 
  and recreation facilities and rewarding young people for their involvement</p>
<p>(5) Newsletter - this has not been produced due to the editor's resignation 
  and other factors. Nick suggested options could include producing a revamped 
  CVS newsletter with a new 2-page article on community empowerment or send out 
  a smaller newsletter within the regular CVS mailing. Michaela suggested using 
  the free newspaper and Paul suggested that Wish FM radio be contacted to se 
  if they could help get the message across to more people in the Borough. It 
  was agreed that the production of a newsletter should be a priority for 2006.</p>
<p>(6) Communityship -Struggled to deliver on this, due mainly to groups not being 
  responsible for updating their information on the website.</p>
<p>(7) The Citizens Panel questionnaire results will be available in January 2006</p>
<p>(8) CVS have obtained funding for a training project</p>
<p>(9) Network meetings - a new system of meetings will take place next year. 
  These will be tied into the cycle of Board meetings so that they take place 
  1 week before each Board and there will be more meetings to bring all the networks 
  together. The 1st 2 meetings will be as follows: 12 January 2006, 7pm to 9pm 
  to discuss the community plan goals and 9 February 2006 will be a reps meeting</p>
<p>5 Douglas Valley report / Next Years grants budget and finance </p>
<p>Mike O'Brien explained the scoring system for the allocation of the Community 
  Learning Chest and the Community Chest grants. The DVC Board decides all grant 
  payments. Copies of the relevant documents were provided for the meeting. Mike 
  also announced that an advertisement has been placed on the Council website 
  for an Administrator's position. The closing date is 9 December.</p>
<p>There will be changes to the small grants programme for next year. Groups who 
  are already expecting funding should know by 12 December. There will be further 
  consultation to confirm the criteria for funding for next year. Changes could 
  include the need to reflect the addressing of &quot;floor targets&quot;, priority 
  given to the 8 neighbourhoods that are within the top 3% of disadvantage/highest 
  need.</p>
<p>Action: Katy agreed to provide a draft CEP budget and include this with the 
  minutes of this meeting.</p>
<p>6 Any Other Business</p>
<p>There is Christmas party and an event at Higher Folds Community Centre on Saturday 
  10 December 2005 from 6.00pm to celebrate Eid and Diwali.</p>
<p>7 Dates of future meetings 2006</p>
<p>It was proposed to hold ENCOMPASS meetings quarterly in 2006. The dates are 
  as follows:</p>
<p>MONDAY 13 FEBRUARY 2006 at 2.00pm</p>
<p>MONDAY 22 MAY 2006 AT 2.00pm</p>
<p>MONDAY 4 SEPTEMBER 2006 at 2.00pm</p>
<p>Venues to be confirmed depending on the availability of Ince Community Centre<br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
