<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
ENCOMPASS
<p>Minutes of the meeting<br>
  Monday 3 September 2007<br>
  Bluecoat School Room, Wigan</p>
<p>1. Present</p>
<p>Marion Andrews (BWCN) Tim Hall (Faith) <br>
  Pam Stewart (BWCN) Joe Taylor (Heritage)<br>
  Peter Takaona (BME) Clare Brennan (Over 50s Forum)<br>
  Ray Hutchinson (Faith) Emma Scott (CEP)<br>
  Andrew Heathman (CEP)</p>
<p>2. Apologies</p>
<p>Mo Burgess (Vol. Sector), Avis Freeman (ETNA), <br>
  Carol Watson (BWCN), Janette Bailey (Vol. Sector), <br>
  Jackie Mutch (Vol. Sector) Ann &amp; David Speers (Disability)</p>
<p>Children &amp; Young People's sub-group not represented<br>
  Action point: Emma to obtain an appropriate representative</p>
<p>3. Election of Chair for this meeting</p>
<p>Emma Scott agreed to chair this meeting, proposed by Joe Taylor and all agreed</p>
<p>4. Minutes of the previous meeting (20/07/2007)</p>
<p> Agreed - no amendments were suggested</p>
<p>5. Matters arising<br>
  (1) Marion queried non-attendance of the CE team and CVS. Emma explained that 
  those members will be invited to the next meeting on 10th September, but today's 
  meeting was for network reps and CEP only to finalise the ToR.</p>
<p>(2) Item 6 Para 4, re. the formal letter from Encompass about the LAA process 
  and representation. Pam Stewart asked if this had been done. Marion explained 
  that she had attended the LAA meetings but has never been formally elected to 
  do this and thus last time's minutes were to be amended to reflect this. </p>
<p>Action: Emma to draft letter and circulate for comments</p>
<p>(3) Emma reported that she has contacted Simon Dale regarding asking for a 
  review of WBP community representation to clarify election of community reps 
  to the Board and on to thematic partnerships. She is still awaiting a response. 
  <br>
  P.S.[This has since been replied to by Lynn Kay who has asked for time for a 
  decision to be made after the WBP board meeting on 7th September. It was agreed 
  by Emma that is would be sensible to wait until the community representative 
  positions had been clarified before paperwork for elections was issued.]</p>
<p>6. Terms of Reference</p>
<p>Changes that were agreed included:<br>
  (1) Mission statement - add &quot;&#133;.to support and encourage participation&quot;<br>
  (2) Aims - paragraph 3 Change the word &quot;different&quot; to &quot;diverse&quot;<br>
  (3) Para 3 - add &quot;&#133;contribute to the everyday life, social cohesion 
  and well being of the Borough&quot;<br>
  (4) Objectives - point (vii) add &quot;&#133;in partnership with&#133;&quot;<br>
  (5) Objectives - point (ix) split with 2 separate points WPB and Thematic - 
  process, accountability, roles and job descriptions</p>
<p>7. Further points raised included:</p>
<p>&middot; Joe explained that he had discussions with Avis Freeman and suggested 
  that Encompass should have its own constitution. After further discussion as 
  to what this would mean for the members, the group agreed that this would strengthen 
  Encompass and that it could be involved at more strategic levels should the 
  opportunities arise.<br>
  &middot; Marion stated that networks are now realising the need and value of 
  Encompass because funding and their continuation is threatened.<br>
  &middot; Pam agreed and said that funding is likely to end for many groups but 
  there is alternative funding from trusts, etc. that Wigan MBC cannot apply for. 
  If Encompass has its own constitution, bank account and elected officers, it 
  could apply for charitable funds.<br>
  &middot; Peter said that if Encompass is to become more powerful it must be 
  able to make decisions, but needs financial power and budgets. If CEP can't 
  help with a budget, where could the constituent networks and groups go to for 
  help? Answer: Encompass.<br>
  &middot; Pam explained that its very likely that post- 1st April 2008, the borough 
  will lose a lot of the European funding that it currently relies on, so preparation 
  for this needs to start now.<br>
  &middot; Marion said that for Encompass to become an independent legal entity, 
  where are the people who are going to have the time and be responsible for &quot;managing 
  and developing&quot; Encompass - not to just attend monthly meetings. All agreed 
  that it was apparently already difficult for people to come to meetings.<br>
  &middot; Tim Hall suggested that Encompass needs elected Officers to keep it 
  going. There have been too many meetings when Encompass was not quorate. He 
  supported the &quot;aspiration&quot; of being an independent entity but can 
  Encompass practically go down this road with budgets and employing staff, hiring 
  venues, servicing meetings etc. Encompass will still need support to do these 
  things.<br>
  &middot; Joe asked the group return to the 2 proposals mentioned in the last 
  meeting's minutes around the outstanding items that were contentious in the 
  terms of reference and said a decision needed to be made today. After discussion 
  it was agreed to change the wording to:</p>
<p>&quot;Encompass aspires to become a fund-holding body and will become constituted 
  as an independent legal entity&quot;. Tim stated that Encompass represents networks, 
  but is one of many useful routes for the community sector and needs funds for 
  admin support. <br>
  To clarify though, Encompass will not be in a position to distribute funds to 
  other bodies/groups/third parties and so cannot be the &quot;clearing house&quot; 
  for funding and all community empowerment initiatives. </p>
<p>8. Election of Chair <br>
  <br>
  After discussion it was proposed by Joe Taylor and seconded by Clare Brennan 
  that Pam Stewart be appointed Chair of Encompass. All present agreed.</p>
<p>9. Election of Vice-Chair</p>
<p>Joe Taylor proposed Carol Watson as Vice-Chair, seconded by Ray Hutchinson 
  and agreed by all present.</p>
<p>10. Election of Secretary</p>
<p>Joe Taylor was proposed as Secretary by Pam Stewart and seconded by Tim Hall. 
  All present agreed.</p>
<p>11. Election of Treasurer</p>
<p>Andrew suggested that Encompass will also need a Treasurer in order to open 
  a bank account in its name. It was suggested that there was only a need for 
  an acting treasurer for the time being as there was no separate budget for Encompass. 
  It was agreed that this will be on the agenda of the next meeting on 10th September.</p>
<p></p>
<p><br>
  12. Any Other Business</p>
<p>(1) Joe Taylor proposed that Encompass is also represented on the LSMG (Local 
  Strategic Management Group). After further discussion it was proposed by Ray 
  Hutchinson that there is probably more power and influence on the LAA group, 
  and so Encompass should aim to be represented on this.</p>
<p><br>
  13. Date and time of the next meeting</p>
<p>10.00am MONDAY 10th SEPTEMBER 2007<br>
  At The Bluecoat Room, Wigan Parish Church.</p>
<p>Suggested agenda items for the next meeting:</p>
<p>&middot; Quoracy status of meetings - what is required to enable decisions 
  to be made<br>
  &middot; Elect an acting Treasurer<br>
  &middot; Writing to members not present today to ask them for their future intentions 
  towards Encompass<br>
  &middot; Draft letter to WBP Board regarding a) whether they will still wish 
  to appoint community representatives to the Board or whether they feel Encompass 
  should have the role to appoint people and b) what role do they wish 3rd sector 
  representatives to have on the Board and other sub-groups. (If WBP Board agrees 
  that Encompass can elect reps then a statement needs to be added to the ToR 
  to state that Encompass will write to the WBP to advise them of the successfully 
  elected reps to the Board.)<br>
  &middot; Revise role of Encompass member - previously issued on reverse of cover 
  letter for 3.9.07 meeting.</p>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
