<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
(3rd October 2005 , Wigan &amp; Leigh CVS) 
<p></p>
<p>Present: Geoff Roberts (Over 50s Forum), Pam Stewart (BW Community Network), 
  Marion Andrews (BW Community Network), Rev Tim Hall (BW Faith Network)</p>
<p>Apologies: Colin Greenhalgh (Voluntary Sector Network), Mo Burgess (Voluntary 
  Sector Network), Shafa Ullah (BME Network), Michaela Nield (BW Youth Council), 
  Simon Dale (Community Engagement)</p>
<p>In attendance: Sian Jay (Township Programme), Katy Crowson (CEP), Nick Trotter 
  ( Wigan &amp; Leigh CVS)</p>
<p>Chair: Pam </p>
<p>Minutes: Katy</p>
<p>1). Minutes of the last meeting: Accepted as a true record with the additional 
  point that Over 50s Forum had 3 focus groups, one on poverty, one on age discrimination 
  and the other on health for the over 50s - reports available soon. Proposed 
  by Geoff and seconded by Tim. </p>
<p>2). Matters Arising: Del is going to pull together a selection of Win Win stories 
  in the next few weeks, when she visits groups she will also enquire about groups 
  mentoring others through the application process.</p>
<p>Letter about funding sent to Lord Peter Smith as Chair of the Board, awaiting 
  a reply.</p>
<p>Substitutes were invited to attend the session - one had been able to make 
  the meeting. There was a general discussion around lack of attendance and possible 
  reasons for this. Lots of meetings and events are going on at the moment, talked 
  about agendas - business versus fun, value of meetings.</p>
<p>ACTION - All future meetings to be at Ince Community Centre as this was felt 
  to be easily accessible to all. To begin quarterly meetings, and do phone calls 
  / emails in between to get people's opinions, ask for a response by a certain 
  date.</p>
<p>Also general discussion around consultation - idea that a proforma be developed 
  that could be used on all consultation documents, checklist for where sent, 
  stating purpose of consultation, what wanted from it and value rating in terms 
  of urgency of response.</p>
<p>3). Service Level Agreement: Meeting not quorate. However after some discussion 
  it was felt that everyone had had plenty of time to comment and that a further 
  copy should be attached to minutes and representatives be asked to respond in 
  writing or via email to show agreement on adopting Service Level Agreement between 
  Wigan &amp; Leigh CVS and Encompass. Otherwise document will remain linked to 
  cycle of meetings.</p>
<p>4). Douglas Valley Grants: Still not had chance to discuss the promotion of 
  grants, once monitoring completed for spend on project for Quarter 1 this will 
  be forwarded to group, only in draft format at the moment, awaiting further 
  comments from DVC. </p>
<p>5). Sustainability: Continued funding for the project is not guaranteed, need 
  to begin to look how Networks fit into Townships, Local Strategic Partnership 
  and the work of the Borough in general. The Networks are seen to be fit for 
  purpose by Government Office North West. - but are we fit for purpose in terms 
  of what's going on locally? Funding for the core team has been reduced again, 
  has to be presumed that this will continue to happen and eventually it will 
  disappear.</p>
<p>The current Development Worker and Administrator have both found full time 
  work in projects with 3 years funding, we can only offer new staff contracts 
  until 31 st March 2007 . This does not help in terms of sustainability. Talked 
  about governments' delivery plans and the fact that it would help if they did 
  longer term planning in relation to this type of development work, so that it 
  didn't move from year to year with no one knowing what is really happening. 
  In addition this lack of forward thinking does not fit in with the whole modernisation 
  agenda. There is a need for the LSP to begin to take on the role of financially 
  investing in the Networks, but how does this happen if they do not have a budget?</p>
<p>The discussions around Neighbourhood Renewal funding are changing how things 
  work slightly, the Board is in a position to make recommendations on spend, 
  need to perhaps look at joining up work of CEN and Townships - how will they 
  fund these two levels of involvement? Feeling that the Networks need to show 
  they are doing such a good job that the LSP will be banging on the door because 
  they need the structures so much. We have a job to do in proving ourselves to 
  a whole host of partners. We need to be evidencing impact and showing the difference 
  the programme / networks are making on the ground and also the impact they are 
  having on the Community Plan goals. We need to be able to show the difference 
  a Network can have on strategically influencing the direction of local policies 
  / services.</p>
<p>ACTION - The group needs to begin to think about what the Networks should look 
  like in the future, why they would look that way and why they are important. 
  Questions around what has worked and not worked to form part of the Performance 
  Management Framework focus groups.</p>
<p>There is an increased need to know in advance what groups like the Board are 
  discussing so that Networks can be proactive in having wider discussions to 
  enable representatives to feed in. Partnerships also need to be clearer about 
  what they want from representatives. There was a general debate about the amount 
  of plans and strategies that are coming out, ability to digest them and feed 
  information to the wider audience. There are so many things going on that events 
  have had to be cancelled due to lack of interest. Problems around information 
  overload.</p>
<p>A suggestion that a membership relationship be developed between Townships 
  and CEN, if you are a member of one you are automatically a member of another. 
  General debate around this, feeling that needs to be lots of different ways 
  for people to get involved not just about formal meetings.</p>
<p>ACTION - CEP team to mark emails in order of priority and make it clear that 
  attendance is really important. Development of proforma for consultation.</p>
<p>6). Performance Management Framework: This is carried out on a yearly basis. 
  Draft questions were handed out - a response is needed by the time of the next 
  meeting - 21 st November. Focus groups still need to be arranged using an external 
  facilitator. </p>
<p>7). General Update: Two training sessions held on Local Strategic Partnerships 
  and the Community Empowerment Programme, 18 people attended. Speak Up Speak 
  Out held - lots of positive comments. A copy of the report going to Government 
  Office Northwest to show activity for Quarter 2 work will be attached to minutes.</p>
<p>8). Any Other Business: The Community Development Foundation is managing a 
  new Faith Communities Capacity Building fund. A suggestion was made that an 
  application be made to this to strengthen commitment that can be given to the 
  Faith Network, especially in relation to cuts in funding next financial year.</p>
<p>Over 50s Forum - they missed the deadline for Lottery. Looking at Coalfields 
  for about &pound;45,000 over 3 years, also looking at other pots, need to find 
  a way of being self sustaining in the short term. Doing work on trying to engage 
  with 50-65 year olds.</p>
<p>Discussion around idea of holding joint meeting every other month, with Networks 
  meeting individually in between - better for networking, more people attending, 
  all look at same topics together rather than 6-7 networks looking at same topic 
  alone.</p>
<p>ACTION - Representatives to take idea back to Network to seek views. </p>
<p>9). Date and Time of Next Meeting: Monday 21 st November at 2pm at Ince Community 
  Centre, depending on whether this time is appropriate for people not able to 
  attend today.</p>
<p>Agenda - budgeting for next financial year, detailed report from Douglas Valley 
  and reports back from Networks on idea of joint meetings.<br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
