<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
Monday, 4 April 2005 , Queens Hall, Wigan 
<p></p>
<p>Present: Mo Burgess (Voluntary Sector), Geoff Roberts (Over 50's Forum), Rev 
  Tim Hall (Faith Network), Pam Stewart (BW Community Network),</p>
<p>Apologies: Michaela Nield (Borough Wide Youth Council), Rachael Ward (BW Youth 
  Council), Shafa Ullah (BME Network), Deborah Lea ( Douglas Valley</p>
<p>In attendance: Sian Jay (Township Programme), Mike O'Brien (Douglas Valley), 
  Simon Dale (Community Engagement Team), Nick Trotter (CVS), Katy Crowson (Community 
  Empowerment Programme), Del Foulkes (CEP)</p>
<p>Minutes of Meeting ( 21 February 2005 ): Proposed as a true record by Geoff 
  Roberts, seconded by Mo Burgess.</p>
<p>Matters Arising: Goeff Roberts asked if the &pound;11,700 grant which had been 
  approved for the Over 50's Forum would be subject to review in the light of 
  next year's proposed cut backs in funding. He thought, in terms of equality, 
  this would be a fair way to proceed. Katy explained that, subject to agreement, 
  the remains of an underspend this year (approx &pound;4K) would be included 
  in the &pound;11,700 so, in fact, only around &pound;7,700 would be allocated 
  from next year's budget. All agreed.</p>
<p>Following amendment of the Terms of Reference specifying that a designated 
  substitute can attend meetings in exceptional circumstances, Katy needs to know 
  the nominated substitutes. Janet has resigned from the Disability Forum who 
  are now looking to nominate someone new.</p>
<p>Katy explained that, regardless of the reduction in funding, the delivery plan 
  had not been changed. She also handed out copies of the following documentation:</p>
<p>Encompass Terms of Reference </p>
<p>Service Level Agreement between W&amp;L CVS and Douglas Valley </p>
<p>Quarters 1, 2, 3 financial report from Community Chest/Community Learning Chest 
</p>
<p>Single Community Programme Delivery Plan 2004-05 (V2 Feb 2004) </p>
<p>Report against Quarter 4 </p>
<p>Financial information</p>
<p></p>
<p>Summary of paperwork sent prior to meeting. </p>
<p>End of Quarter Report: Katy quickly read through the progress at the end of 
  Quarter 4 as set out in the Delivery Plan. All happy with the content.</p>
<p>Geoff commented that the Over 50's Forum continued to develop links with Angers 
  .</p>
<p>Tim asked for something to be included on the youth bus project.</p>
<p>Untitled News had not been produced for some time - the team is awaiting monitoring 
  information.</p>
<p>Simon thought it might be opportune to think about the issue of communication 
  for the whole of the LSP. It was recognised that the Communication Group would 
  need support if a new approach was to be adopted.</p>
<p>Financial Update: Katy read through the financial report explaining that that 
  there had necessarily been a certain amount of crystal ball gazing last year, 
  it was difficult to compare actuals with the budget and that any anomalies would 
  be rectified in the coming year. Anyone with any queries, please get in touch 
  with Katy.</p>
<p>Next Year's Delivery Plan - Priority for Grants: Allocations were &pound;148,804 
  to Community Chest and &pound;37,201 (plus addition from European funds) to 
  Community Learning Chest . CC usually spent on local neighbourhood initiatives 
  and CLC on training, conference, etc. Discussion followed on how to prioritise 
  the spending of this money and how to establish the criteria that grants should 
  be awarded against. There was general appreciation that key areas and targets 
  in the borough had to be met but not at the expense of small groups with good 
  initiatives. Some groups were also expert at writing bids and acquiring funding 
  while others needed support. Mike said that DV had to factor in all the various 
  elements, eg capacity of an area, low/high demand, low/high need, low/high takeup. 
  Nick pointed out that in view of the 12% cut in funding (19% in real terms) 
  this was not just a pot of money that could be applied for without some specific 
  targeting, monitoring and evaluation. Mike said DV were trying to be more structured 
  about the application process, especially in terms of prioritising. DV need 
  to give the Grants Panel some accurate guidelines. Need to know the contribution 
  the scheme awarded will make to neighbourhood renewal - some initiatives are 
  not that obvious but do have merit. Other comments made included: &quot;The 
  most important thing is being able to demonstrate that by granting &pound;X 
  amount this is the difference it will make, rather than this is a good idea 
  and should be supported (Sian); monitoring and evaluation is sometimes disproportionate 
  (Pam); we are already monitoring to some extent in meeting neighbourhood renewal 
  targets (Mike); statistical evidence is useful for some levels (Mike); how do 
  you measure quality v quantity - sometimes easy to get the numbers up but has 
  this made a difference? (Pam); important to recognise the number of people who 
  subsequently become involved - how many members of the community are brought 
  on board (Sian); difficult to write criteria to show engagement and development 
  of people (Pam); evidence needed on how the money granted has made a difference 
  - can be pictorial evidence (Nick); the Grants Panel could look for certain 
  key features, pick out the most important points and check that these have happened 
  - essential that we show money spent has made a difference (Nick); don't think 
  it's unrealistic to ask for feedback even following a small grant (Mo).</p>
<p>Options were discussed on how and if thresholds could be set for different 
  levels of funding with corresponding levels of application, monitoring and evaluation 
  information required. Discretionary powers of the Grant Panel to recommend, 
  say, giving a percentage of the grant applied for if only certain criteria were 
  met, with added funding for extra information, monitoring, etc, was also discussed. 
  Pam pointed out the difficult nature of the work of the Grants Panel - people 
  are asked to volunteer to do a job that guarantees a certain level of harassment. 
  Don't make the procedure any more difficult. Sian thought the Panel should be 
  looking at added value to the community - not eligibility, eg at initiatives 
  which have the potential to make a difference. Nothing wrong in giving money 
  then a project does not work out but lessons must be learned (Nick). Time restrictions 
  also for Panel, quick decisions often have to be made. Discussion then followed 
  on joint Panel meetings, including Social Services grants. Simplicity for those 
  applying was given as a probable advantage together with consistency of decision 
  making.</p>
<p>Mike said that groups need to be reminded about criteria. DV need to know which 
  community issues are being addressed - not all buttons have to be hit but need 
  to know how possible success will be achieved and evidence of how. Katy pointed 
  out that some of the specific themes arising from the local area agreements 
  appeared to be children and young people, community safety, public health, and 
  the elderly. Pam mentioned that setting borough wide criteria could be at odds 
  with neighbourhood renewal and local needs - different areas have different 
  priorities - we need some flexibility.</p>
<p>Sian thought it might be helpful for groups applying for grants to be issued 
  with a user friendly form summarising all the criteria information. Nick agreed 
  that if groups could be encouraged to apply against perceived need, it would 
  be really useful. Again it was stressed that small groups should not be alienated, 
  specifically those on a very local level whose ideas were 'felt' and 'seen' 
  rather than 'structured'. Nick commented that things do not have to change instantly. 
  Let us become more public about what we are looking for within the borough by 
  distributing relevant information. Katy said that different township priorities 
  could be sent out to different area applicants.</p>
<p>Katy summarised:</p>
<p>Community Empowerment Programme to draft document for comment covering criteria 
  and value added information, including making a difference, increasing participation, 
  etc, by the end of this week and then send to members for approval. </p>
<p></p>
<p>Discussion with Douglas Valley about logistics of the whole process. </p>
<p></p>
<p>Application pack for prospective applicants to include CEP leaflet and area 
  specific Township Action Plans once produced. </p>
<p></p>
<p>The pack information should be informative rather than a requirement and it 
  should be mentioned that this procedure is still in the early stages and we 
  all hope to learn valuable lessons on the way forward from it.</p>
<p>All voting members agreed to this process.</p>
<p>Any Other Business:</p>
<p>Sian - Would like to see change in format of Quarterly reports.</p>
<p>Simon - As a matter of policy, this group needs to formally agree (or not) 
  how the 12% budget cut has been applied. All voting members agreed.</p>
<p>Simon - Had received some correspondence from B Walker, Social Services asking 
  for views on 12% budget cuts. B Walker needed to respond to Ian McCartney. Katy 
  had already expressed the CEP view but reiterated that we were unhappy that 
  there had been no local consultation by Central Government before this decision 
  had been taken. Redundancies were not an option as there was no leeway to reduce 
  the level of work and the affect on remaining staff would be catastrophic so, 
  unfortunately, the level of grants would have to be cut back.</p>
<p>Date of the Next Meetings: Monday, 23 May at the Leigh Ethnic Centre; Monday, 
</p>
<p>4 July, Wigan ; Monday, 22 August, Leigh. All meetings to commence at 2.00 
  pm . If you are unable to attend, please nominate your substitute.<br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
