<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
ENCOMPASS
<p>Minutes of the meeting Monday 5 November 2007 at the Bluecoat School, Wigan</p>
<p>Present:</p>
<p>Pam Stewart, Joe Taylor, Avis Freeman, Carol Watson, Irene Yates, Khaled Amini, 
  Clare Brennan, Marion Andrews. 6 Networks were represented</p>
<p>In Attendance: Andrew Heathman, Emma Scott, Nick Trotter, Sian Jay</p>
<p>Apologies:</p>
<p>Kelly Mills, Hilary Young, Tim Hall, Maureen Burgess, Jeanette Bailey, Ed Ellis, 
  Tom Price<br>
  Hilary had written to say that she was happy with Andrew representing the Faith 
  Network as an observer.</p>
<p>Minutes of the previous meeting </p>
<p>Accepted as true and accurate</p>
<p>Matters arising</p>
<p>Sian asked for clarification re the wording 'community members were being left 
  in the dark'. Carol, as acting chair, said that they referred to the community 
  sector not being included in discussions regarding the restructure of the Community 
  Engagement section or the restructure of the Townships program.</p>
<p>Sian pointed out that information was not being withheld but that these discussions 
  were not being held yet. Clare moved that the minutes be altered to say that 
  community organisations needed to be involved in the debate, not that they were 
  being excluded and this was agreed.</p>
<p>Progress Report</p>
<p>Five people present attended the last LSP Board meeting where the acting chair, 
  John O'Neill, categorically stated it that there would be no reduction in the 
  number of thematic partnerships.</p>
<p>Pam Stewart received a response to the letter she wrote to the Chief Executive, 
  Joyce Redfern, concerning community sector representation at various levels 
  of the LSP. This response was discussed and analysed in detail. In essence, 
  her view is that strategic decisions are made at appropriate forums and then 
  responsibility is delegated to officers and staff for delivery and coordination, 
  the structures for community input into strategic decision-making being already 
  in place. </p>
<p>It was decided that there is some validity in this appraisal. The papers regarding 
  the development of the LAA, for example, were presented at the LPS some while 
  ago but members of Encompass and other representatives/leaders may not have 
  disseminated this information as widely as we might have nor sought input from 
  the membership of the networks as energetically as we could have done.</p>
<p><br>
  Treasurer and Bank Account:</p>
<p>Money for the conference at Kendal has been deposited in the bank account and 
  a cheque will be posted to the organisers. Four network representatives are 
  attending, along with five officers. The Urban Forum conference, 3 - 4 December, 
  needs to be organised next. Network leads need to canvas their organisations 
  for people who would like to attend and get back to Joe or Emma as soon as possible.</p>
<p>Code of Conduct:</p>
<p>A draft code of conduct for Encompass members was presented and discussed. 
  It was agreed that Andrew Heathman would make suitable amendments and post the 
  amended version back to the Secretary.</p>
<p>Role of Members:</p>
<p>To compliment the code of conduct, Emma had prepared an outline of the role 
  Encompass members would be expected to perform. This document was welcomed as 
  an example of good practice.</p>
<p>Reports from Networks:</p>
<p>Network leads gave verbal reports regarding their networks. It was agreed that 
  monthly written reports should be sent to the Secretary so that they can be 
  circulated (and disseminated) with other correspondence relating to Encompass.</p>
<p>Irene Yates (Wigan &amp; Leigh Disability Forum) provided this written report:</p>
<p>WLDF have now obtained office premises which is Hunter Lodge, Hunter Lodge, 
  Marsh Green, Wigan WN5 0QD Tel: 01942 734554 direct line (answer phone) where 
  you may be asked to leave a message. The office is manned for approximately 
  13hrs a week, so your message will be picked up that week. There is also a mobile 
  number 07835 988361. Website address www.wldf.org </p>
<p>Networks wishing to place items of interest please contact secretary@wldf.org</p>
<p>Next Disability Forum all members meeting 27th Nov 2007 - 6.30pm - 8pm @ Ince 
  Community Centre. Guest speakers are:-</p>
<p>&middot; Alison Billington (BT Age &amp; Disability Team) will be displaying 
  equipment available for customers, for example, special phones for the hard 
  of hearing and text phones for the disabled.</p>
<p>&middot; Sarah Gardner (RNID Tinnitus Outreach Worker) - Offering advice and 
  signposting services to individuals dealing with tinnitus.</p>
<p>&middot; Wheels for all - Adapted bicycles for the disabled and adapted bikes 
  for wheelchair users who need to remain in there wheelchairs. </p>
<p>The Forum's secretary attended the LINKs consultation - Training is being delivered 
  to voluntary organisations that took part in the initial stages on 16th Nov 
  2007.</p>
<p>WLDF - Welcome new Chair (Sandra Lightfoot) &amp; Assistant Chair (Jody Peel) 
</p>
<p><br>
  An Action Plan for Community Empowerment:</p>
<p>This document, prepared by the department of Communities &amp; Local Government 
  and the Local Government Association, was discussed at great length by all present. 
  It contains the complete framework for community engagement into the future. 
  We agreed to use the recommendations of the document to support the continued 
  use of community engagement/empowerment in the Borough. We also recognised that 
  the report wasn't saying more of the same and that our approach would be an 
  offer to use what we have learned to develop a new and improved system for enabling 
  local people to have a voice </p>
<p>It was agreed that this action plan should form the basis of an offer from 
  Encompass, to the rest of the LSP, to provide support to implement the action 
  plan locally. Encompass is well placed to build on its existing foundations 
  and encourage existing and new networks to grow and flourish. A local version 
  of the action plan could be produced to illustrate the work already carried 
  out by Encompass and the networks and the potential for further development. 
  This would not be about Encompass claiming to have everything in place but being 
  ready and able to make good progress. This could be an early win for the LSP.</p>
<p>It was suggested that a checklist should be created against which individual 
  networks could use to show their current position. Emma agreed to create this 
  before the next meeting and circulate it for amendment/improvement. The idea 
  being that each network could then ensure it was conforming to certain expectations 
  of community networks as recommended by good practice in e.g. governance, diversity 
  awareness, structures, etc. </p>
<p><br>
  Next All Networks Meeting and next LPS Board Meeting:</p>
<p>The next All Networks meeting will be at Ince community centre 19th November, 
  5pm - 7pm. It was decided that the following items should be on the agenda:</p>
<p>&middot; Presentation on Encompass and the Community Empowerment Action Plan<br>
  &middot; LINks - session on network members input and what the changes from 
  PPIHfs to LINks will mean</p>
<p>The next LPS Board will be 23rd November. It was decided that we will ask for 
  Encompass to be an agenda item and that Emma will give a presentation regarding 
  Encompass and what Encompass can do to help the LSP fulfil it's future obligations 
  regarding community engagement, supported by the LSP community representatives.</p>
<p>Free Training by Refugee Action:</p>
<p>20th November 2007, Wigan Town Hall, 9.30am-3.30pm - how to involve Refugees 
  and Asylum Seekers to volunteer for your organisation</p>
<p>Dates &amp; Venues For Future Meetings:</p>
<p>It was decided that all future meeting would take place at a central venue 
  with disability access. This will be arranged and notice sent out ASAP<br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
