<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
ENCOMPASS
<p>MINUTES OF THE MEETING<br>
  HELD ON MONDAY 7 APRIL 2008 <br>
  10.00am, at Ince Community Centre</p>
<p>1. Present</p>
<p>Pam Stewart (Chair) (BWCN), <br>
  Marion Andrews (Secretary) (BWCN), <br>
  Tim Hall (Faith Network), <br>
  Hilary Young (Faith Network)<br>
  Irene Yates (Disability Forum)<br>
  Ed Ellis (C&amp;YP sub-group)<br>
  Shafa Ullah (World In Wigan Network/Open Door)<br>
  Avis Freeman (ETNA)<br>
  David Wilson (ETNA)<br>
  Margaret Hughes (independent/CVS Board)<br>
  Emma Scott (CEP)<br>
  Andrew Heathman (CEP)<br>
  Heather Lomas (CVS, observing)</p>
<p>2. Apologies received</p>
<p>Sandra Lightfoot &amp; Barbara Bodie (Disability), Carol Watson (BWCN), Clare 
  Brennan (Over 50s Forum), Simon Dale (Wigan Council), Nick Trotter (CVS), Khaled 
  Amini (WiW)</p>
<p>3. Any Other Business (AOB)</p>
<p>Chair Pam Stewart opened the meeting and apologised for not being able to be 
  present at two previous meetings and agreed that AOB should be discussed first 
  in the light of other considerations. The agenda had not been tabled as this 
  meeting was intended to discuss the future of the Networks following the All 
  Networks meeting last week.</p>
<p>1. &quot;Hope in Wigan/Hope 08&quot; festival. This was a national programme 
  with the local week running from 5 -11 May 2008. - Tim Hall explained that the 
  programme of events for this faith festival is aimed at building on the Easter 
  events. Details can be found on 2 websites: <br>
  www.hope.com and www.hopenews.co.uk/hope<br>
  Hilary gave advance notice of a musical event in November which is also part 
  of Hope 08 - Roger Jones' musical 'Rock' to visit on tour and be performed with 
  a locally trained and recruited chorus, performing in the afternoon of Sunday 
  Nov 9th (Remembrance Sunday)</p>
<p>2. Emma tabled the 'Your Community Needs You' posters - again available for 
  distribution. Please let her know where they are put up so that they can be 
  replaced and/or further information added.</p>
<p>3. &quot;What Makes Wigan Work&quot; - initiated by the Anglican deanery, is 
  to take place on May 23rd year. It will bring together faith groups and other 
  stakeholders from all sectors to consider ways to make a difference in in Wigan, 
  in particular addressing the 'Workless' agenda. Details from Hilary Young. This 
  may be a way of partly addressing the roll and future of the networks in the 
  borough. </p>
<p>4. First draft of the role for a community network representative was tabled, 
  this information could be included in the LSP handbook but also provided to 
  reps when first elected. Comments invited - please send them to Emma by 18th 
  April.</p>
<p>5. Environment Partnership</p>
<p>Local Development Framework (Core Strategy) consultation - comments:<br>
  It was noted that this consultation showed particular bias and was &quot;geographically 
  tailored&quot; to suit what the council wants to be decided in each area.<br>
  There was a lack of consistency &amp; cohesiveness in the various presentations 
  depending on who gave the presentations and the &quot;audience&quot; it was 
  aimed at.</p>
<p>There was lack of preparation time (only 4 weeks) for the various communities 
  to be involved after the Council spent 6 months preparing the document without 
  any community involvement. In addition some people have been told that the time 
  limit for views to be accepted was not &quot;set in stone&quot; i.e. by 26 March, 
  but some people have been told that no further views are accepted after this 
  date.</p>
<p>Avis pointed out that the &quot;Parkside Development&quot; is only shown on 
  one of the options and yet it would have implications on other options/other 
  areas within the LDF.</p>
<p>Emma Scott tabled a letter she had drafted for comment regarding representation 
  on the Road Safety Forum. It was agreed that Emma should respond to the individual 
  who had made comment on this at the last Environment Partnership and copy it 
  to Martin Kimber, Peter Smith and Joyce Redfern for information.</p>
<p>It was also proposed that a letter should be sent regarding the general issues 
  re. representation at partnerships. There was considerable discussion about 
  inconsistencies from within the council on how community representatives are 
  treated re. lack of value and respect etc. &quot;Some council officers have 
  complete contempt for the community&quot;.</p>
<p>Action: Chair of Encompass to send letter to Cllr C Ready requesting that the 
  matter be taken up formally as the COMPACT is not being followed. Copies to 
  be sent to Lord P Smith and CE Joyce Redfern for information purposes. </p>
<p>It was felt that the Council should have the opportunity to comment on this 
  matter formally and that if this was not to the satisfaction of Encompass then 
  further steps* (see below) would be taken. </p>
<p>Contributions from many members indicated that this was not the first time 
  that this had happened - along with other issues:<br>
  e.g. members of ETNA not being invited to the Greenheart project and the lack 
  of planning around the length of time needed to properly consult with public 
  e.g. Local Development Framework. </p>
<p>Other partnerships were also commented on e.g. Jacqui Farrington had not been 
  invited to the Community Safety Partnership for two years probably because she 
  is not on e-mail, the Health &amp; Social Care partnership did not seem to have 
  met for 2.5 years, etc.</p>
<p>The quality of consultation was also challenged as officers of the local authority/partnerships 
  decide what choices are available then present these to the residents to make 
  their choice - residents should be involved from the outset to evidence that 
  true consultation (as opposed to community manipulation) has taken place. Consultations 
  e.g. in relation to Poolstock Lane, a consultation was held at Hawkley Hall 
  school - where people from Poolstock &amp; Worsley Mesnes who were affected 
  by the changes would not go (seen by them as out of their area).</p>
<p>There's a perception that by empowering local people, officers will do themselves 
  out of a job and therefore they are threatened by community having a voice. 
</p>
<p>It was commented that in 1999/2000 the 'Agenda 21' concept around local involvement 
  of communities was all important and that even now Central Government documentation 
  is indicating that communities should be at the heart of decision-making yet 
  recent proposals by Wigan Council seem to be quite the opposite even though 
  the Council obtained the Beacon status with the help of the community (i.e. 
  it was a chat between some of the network members, council officers in a room 
  and at the time there were good examples available). </p>
<p>Interpretation of Govt policy can differ from department to department and 
  officer to officer within the local authority/partnerships and whilst the message 
  was strong around community involvement when discussed at the highest level, 
  somehow the same message gets diluted as it cascades down the management structure(s). 
  There is undoubtedly a gap in the skills of middle managers to carry out community 
  involvement effectively. </p>
<p>A good example of how partnership working can be beneficial was cited by Ed 
  Ellis when he reported that the WLCT took on board comments from the community 
  in relation to using appropriate community members to undertake some mystery 
  shopping on behalf of the Trust. </p>
<p>A suggestion was put forward that perhaps the community sector could facilitate 
  the 2009 Partnership Convention - if subject matter was agreed by the LSP and 
  then presented by members of the community, this would possibly generate more 
  lateral thinking and encourage more community engagement and better attendance 
  from local communities. It could be a cyclical approach to delivering the convention 
  i.e. Council one year, WLCT the next, Community Networks the next. </p>
<p>It was pointed out that Wigan Council's policy on community engagement was 
  not common knowledge - even to the members of Encompass - although the meeting 
  was advised that a statement of intent was included in the Local Area Agreement 
  (there is an indicator in the new LAA around &quot;a thriving 3rd Sector&quot;) 
</p>
<p>Townships and PACTs seem to be the main tools in the LSP structure to deliver 
  community engagement however many gaps have been identified. In particular PACTs 
  are re-active to problems, parachuting in to deal with crime and grime problems 
  on a temporary basis - and then move on to another area. In addition people 
  that get into a better jobs and/or raise their aspirations then move out of 
  an area, so the geographic area of deprivation is left with the residents that 
  still need empowering.</p>
<p>It was re-iterated at the All networks meeting that the Networks were valued 
  and were a part of the Local Strategic Partnership. It was suggested that we 
  send a letter stating the contribution of the Networks towards the Borough and 
  asking the LSP/Council to identify any gaps (see below).</p>
<p>6. The future of the networks<br>
  The terms for the additional 6 months funding for the Networks have not yet 
  been received and the meeting recommended that external funding should continue 
  to be investigated. Coalfield Regeneration Trust may be able to assist. Other 
  avenues to be explored are Tudor Trust, Awards for All and the Urban Forum who 
  may be able to signpost to a suitable source of funding as they are likely to 
  have heard these problems from elsewhere in the UK.<br>
  Action: Emma &amp; Marion to look into potential sources</p>
<p>A concern was raised that services are being commissioned from outside the 
  borough rather than to encourage third sector organisations within the borough 
  to deliver the services. Some 3rd sector organisations are ready for commissioning 
  but no information is available. It was suggested that a social enterprise might 
  be established to deliver training within the borough, which is something Encompass 
  could offer to the LSP partners, around e.g. the equality and diversity training 
  needs that public services have.</p>
<p>Action: Encompass to write to the LSP and ask them what it is they want from 
  community involvement? Encompass can point out the things that the networks 
  are doing e.g. 'consultation work' until PACTs are in a place to be able to 
  do that effectively, and how they already contribute &pound;millions. Are these 
  what the LSP wants? What is it that the LSP desires that is being done elsewhere? 
</p>
<p>This letter should also be copied to the CVS Board.</p>
<p>*It was proposed that the members of Encompass reflect upon a strategy to effect 
  change - think about what is not happening now and what might happen and how 
  Encompass or the Networks could influence this. The meeting was informed that 
  the Anglican Churches are holding a meeting on 23rd May entitled 'What makes 
  Wigan Work'- this could be a platform for debate. </p>
<p>Do we need the LSP? It would be better to be commissioned to do work that the 
  LSP needs. They achieved 'Beacon status' with our help, so therefore they need 
  our help to maintain it - is re-assessed every year. It was discussed that if 
  the LSP was more-community led there would be more emphasis towards community 
  participation, other examples were cited where the LSP was chaired by a member 
  of the community e.g. Leeds, Walsall, Doncaster, St. Helens, Greenwich.<br>
  The networks know they have value, are being told by the local 'leadership' 
  that they have value (i.e. are part of the LSP) but members find that when they 
  get involved, they face barriers.<br>
  How can this be resolved for the benefit of all involved? That would cost the 
  LSP an amount of money.</p>
<p>Action: All to write down areas where partnership working has not worked and 
  potential solutions to bring to the next meeting. ES to match this with an update 
  on national &amp; local policies. These could form the basis of a response to 
  the current situation and/or the beginnings of a strategy around community involvement 
  in this borough. </p>
<p>Next meeting 10.00am, Thursday 8th May 2008, Ince Community Centre - t.b.c.</p>
<p></p>
</body>
</html>
