<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
Notes of Encompass meeting held at Ince Community Centre Manchester Road Ince 
Wigan 7th July 2008
<p>Present: Pam Stewart (BWCN), Clare Brennan (Over 50's), Irene Yates (Disability), 
  Avis Freeman (ETNA), Ed Ellis (Youth), Ray Hutchinson &amp; Hilary Young (Faith) 
  Khaled Amini (WiW) Joe Taylor (Heritage)</p>
<p>In attendance: Nick Trotter (CVS)</p>
<p>Apologies: Marion Andrews (BWCN), Carol Watson (BWVC), Emma Scott (CVS)</p>
<p>Minutes of the last meeting: The Minutes of the last meeting 16th June 2008 
  were confirmed as correct. The secretary thanked members for their input into 
  the minutes, which enables an accurate record to be circulated quickly, with 
  little need of subsequent amendments. </p>
<p>Matters arising: Ed pointed out that the large number of emails have been circulating 
  due to the organisation having to firm up its structure. He requested that members 
  consider the amount of work that has gone into the preparation of the documents 
  we receive</p>
<p>Irene Yates has been visiting premises and collecting information about possible 
  office space for Encompass and the Networks to operate from.</p>
<p>Bank Account, Related Matters, Financial Statement: Avis reported that the 
  current balance was &pound;4065.82. She informed the meeting that she is overstretched 
  for time due to having too many commitments and will therefore step down as 
  the ENTNA representative on Encompass. Ed proposed a vote of thanks for her 
  services, gave Avis an open invitation to return at any time and promised to 
  keep her up to date with developments. Avis will request ETNA to elect a replacement. 
</p>
<p>Ed reiterated the need for a clear and transparent picture of our finances 
  to be available at all times. CVS had provided the financial documents relating 
  to Encompass for this meeting, as requested.</p>
<p>The organisation now requires a competent treasurer and training is available 
  for anyone willing to take on the post. All network representatives are requested 
  to make inquires within their own organisations for such a person. </p>
<p>Report on the Sustainability Team meeting 2nd July: As Marion was away on holiday; 
  Khaled and Joe met with the Sustainability to report on their findings from 
  the conference they attended in London June 5. It was a beneficial meeting for 
  both organisations. The Sustainability Team has written to say that the meeting 
  was interesting and useful. They hope to make progress in sustainability topics 
  from a community perspective, being particularly interested in how community 
  groups can take advantage of funding opportunities for energy efficiency measures 
  and renewable energy schemes. Direction and assistance regarding funding for 
  community initiatives is an area they can advise on. We in turn can assist in 
  getting the sustainability message to grass roots level.</p>
<p>CVS Report: Nick Trotter, manager of CVS, attended in an advisory capacity 
  and spoke at length about the CVS position regarding Community Empowerment. 
  Ed then emphasised the need for us to develop a close working relationship with 
  CVS as both organisations restructure themselves for the immediate future. Pam 
  sympathised with the position that CVS finds itself, being a Voluntary Sector 
  organisation that is too often called upon to work with the Community Sector, 
  which is difficult because it is not the real purpose of CVS. She complimented 
  Nick on his ability to do the difficult job he is employed by CVS to perform 
  and said that the time had come for the Community Sector to become empowered 
  so that the two organisations can run complimentary to each other.</p>
<p>Pam acknowledged the difficult position Nick and CVS had been placed in within 
  the Wigan governance sector. CVS are the Council for Voluntary Services but 
  officers and others often confuse this as being the Community and Voluntary 
  Sector. <br>
  <br>
  Pam also acknowledged that due to the work of CVS and certain forward looking 
  officers within the council, in developing the Networks and individual members, 
  the Community sector was now ready to take tentative steps to stand alone whilst 
  complimenting the work of CVS and working in true partnership to create a strong 
  3rd sector within the Borough.</p>
<p>Nick reported that among key points coming from recent discussions within CVS 
  was the question of why a CVS, as a Voluntary Sector organisation, invests so 
  much of its time in Community Empowerment and whether or not CVS is asked to 
  take on too much. </p>
<p>He explained that the six months work CVS has been contracted to do for &pound;67,000 
  is not entirely related to Community Empowerment and how an exit strategy for 
  the CEP program had not been developed in time. The consolation process now 
  in progress did not originate as a Community Sector initiative but was tailored 
  rather to fit outside interests. </p>
<p>Pam expressed concerns that in the past officers had put too much emphasis 
  on the structure of networks and community development and not enough time was 
  spent on considering what the outcomes of a successful, confident and vibrant 
  3rd sector could be. Community development and network success should not be 
  measured by the amount of people that attend meetings but by the amount of information, 
  communication and benefit attending the meeting has created.<br>
  <br>
  Pam enquired who now controls the budget for Encompass and network members to 
  attend important, relevant, upcoming conferences, Nick felt that there might 
  be enough monies within the current budget and welcomed further discussion.<br>
  <br>
  Report on the Empowerment Consultancy 23rd June: Ed reported that five Encompass 
  members were present at that meeting and outlined the outcomes. There are two 
  upcoming public consultancies, one on Friday 11th July 1.00- 4.30 pm at Wigan 
  Town Hall, Committee Room B and the other Wednesday on 23rd July 5.30 - 8.30 
  pm at Leigh Masonic Hall, Spinning Jenny Way, Leigh. All Network leads are requested 
  to try to get as many of their members as possible to attend these events. The 
  consultants will also run a workshop at the next All Networks/ACSEND meeting 
  30th July</p>
<p>Report on the All Networks Meeting 25th June: Ed reported that much discussion 
  had occurred as a result of that meeting concerning the best possible way to 
  amalgamate the former All Networks forum and Encompass into one entity with 
  both a strategic and a operational level and that this work is still in progress.</p>
<p>Report on the Proposal meeting 30th June: The chair and secretary met with 
  Simon Dale to seek guidance regarding the development of a Proposal by Encompass 
  regarding the Future of Community Empowerment. Nick absented himself from the 
  room at this point as this agenda item concerned only Encompass members. Ed 
  thanked Nick for his valuable contribution to the meeting and presented the 
  draft of a Proposal that he has developed, with input from other members, since 
  June 31. He emphasised that the Proposal is very much a draft at this stage 
  and invited members to scrutinise it carefully and note any suggestions or amendments. 
  Many constructive suggestions were made and these will be incorporated into 
  a final draft, in due course.</p>
<p>Constitution amendments: The changes to Community Empowerment that are currently 
  underway have necessitated a review of the Encompass constitution. The aim is 
  to have a constitution that seamlessly joins a strategic and an operational 
  level of the organisation and allows access to both levels for individuals and 
  Network representatives. A review of the constitution was presented and this 
  review was accepted for ratification at the next meeting, with the proviso that 
  article b) -To borrow through loans, mortgages or other means for the organisation's 
  objectives - was removed from 'Powers'</p>
<p>Reports from networks: </p>
<p>Heritage Network: At it's next meeting the Heritage Network will revisit the 
  previous Heritage Strategy in light of Wigan be designated as a priority area 
  by the Heritage Lottery Fund and examine how it can work in conjunction with 
  other organisations to forward the development of the Greenheart Project. Agendas 
  and minutes are available on its website www.wiganheritage.com </p>
<p><br>
  Disability Forum </p>
<p>&middot; Offices explored to date - Beecham Court/ Hawkley House / Hindley 
  Business solutions<br>
  &middot; Currently exploring - Old Jobcentre premises in Hallgate + possible 
  office in Jaxons Court (wigan) will feedback at next meeting<br>
  &middot; WLDF will lead on the Health/Social Care Project - details of when 
  this will happen still being finalised - will update at next meeting<br>
  &middot; Funding Applications pending - Coalfields Regeneration (For project 
  to Compile an A-Z Directory covering all aspects of Health And Social Care<br>
  &middot; Social Needs Transport project - WLDF (will be commissioned) and have 
  met with Primary Care Trusts and await feedback from Adult Services<br>
  &middot; Vacancy for Treasurer - nomination forms and accompanying letter going 
  out to all members <br>
  &middot; Annual Event Planning meetings will commence August 2008 - all interested 
  parties who wish to have a stall to contact the secretary@wldf.org</p>
<p>Youth</p>
<p> A limited number of fully funded places are currently available for four-day 
  courses, which include a British Red Cross (3 year) First Aid Certificate. </p>
<p>Another round of funding for Youth Opportunities and Youth Capital Funds will 
  happen, although the date is not yet decided. </p>
<p>Children, Young Peoples &amp; Families Voluntary Sector Sub-Group has decided 
  to establish a link with the Youth Forum.<br>
  <br>
  Groups affiliated to WCVYS are advised that maintenance grant forms are now 
  available. <br>
  Young People from Lowton Youth Group recently performed a dance routine at the 
  launch of the Festival of Flight </p>
<p>Vinvoled is a new project for young volunteers. For details on anything above 
  email: ed.ellis@wcvys.org </p>
<p>Over 50's Forum is finally emerging from a difficult few months financially. 
  We are gradually moving towards being able to say that we are a social enterprise 
  and not dependent on grants for our survival. We are building up partnerships 
  with other organisations in the borough, undertaking training and reviewing 
  all areas of our &quot;operation&quot;. We have successfully secured a small 
  grant from Adult Services towards the running of our office. The number of intergenerational 
  projects has risen dramatically and we are beginning to look positively to the 
  future.</p>
<p>WiW Have taken a six-month lease on premises at the Eckersley Mills complex 
  and are in need of furniture and other equipment. They are currently revising 
  their constitution.</p>
<p>BWCN will wait until their AGM before making any decision regarding the future 
  of that Network. Phil Hurst is actively looking at possible premises to house 
  Encompass/ACSEND and the Networks.</p>
<p>ETNA continue to be actively involved in environmental and transport issues 
  throughout the Borough.</p>
<p><br>
  Date of Next Meeting: The next meeting will be held on the 18th August 2008 
  at Ince Community Centre 10am - 12noon. <br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
