<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
ENCOMPASS<br>
Minutes of the meeting Monday 8 October 2007 at the Bluecoat School, Wigan
<p>Present</p>
<p>Pam Stewart, Joe Taylor, Avis Freeman, Carol Watson, Ann &amp; David Speers, 
  Irene Yates, Kelly Mills, Tom Price</p>
<p>In Attendance Andrew Heathman, Emma Scott, Nick Trotter</p>
<p>Apologies</p>
<p>Clare Brennan, Jackie Mutch, Ray Hutchinson, Hilary Young, Simon Dale, Angela 
  Wood, Peter Takaona, Tim Hall</p>
<p>Minutes of the previous meeting (10/09/2007)</p>
<p>Accepted as true and accurate</p>
<p>Emma noted that the Third Sector Liaison Group should maybe be called the Third 
  Sector Commissioning Group</p>
<p>Matters arising</p>
<p>None </p>
<p>Progress Report</p>
<p>Pam Stewart reported on her recent meeting with Joyce Redfern and Peter Smith, 
  accompanied by Stephen Kearney and Julia Olson from Regenerate Trust, concerning 
  community participation via social enterprise. The response was favourable - 
  the key points being:</p>
<p>&middot; Strategy is primary; money is secondary.<br>
  &middot; If agencies could be encouraged and facilitated to work with a common 
  process to engage effectively with the community and its agendas there would 
  be potential long term benefits for the Borough - better targeted services, 
  emerging social and community enterprises impacting on democratic, economic, 
  cultural and environmental development. <br>
  &middot; Leadership is critical. Buy in from agencies (including non LA where 
  possible) is crucial. The opportunity arising in Wigan has been unusual in that 
  (a) the interest and support for the approach has been from an LA economic development 
  team that understands the link with community engagement - and (b) the preparedness 
  of Regeneration officers (especially Kevin Walsh and Christine Bainbridge) and 
  community champions to engage pro-actively in facilitating a new approach. This 
  should be built on.<br>
  &middot; The Council needs to lead - and bring others on board. Joyce and Peter 
  proposed a SMT/cabinet event (to look at community engagement including the 
  developing roles of councillors). Joyce said that she thought the ER dept. would 
  be well placed to take on developing the strategy and looking at how it could 
  be sustained. <br>
  &middot; A timely and useful discussion appreciated by all</p>
<p>Pam emphasised the need for the community sector to become sustainable in its 
  contribution to service provision.</p>
<p>First Aid Club Proposal</p>
<p>Kelly Mills explained the proposal for twelve-week course, which is aimed at 
  providing first aid training to those groups that would normally be excluded 
  from such services, such as people with multiple disabilities and certain ethnic 
  minorities. The cost would be &pound;1200 for 12 places and it was agreed that 
  the funds should come from the Community Empowerment Programme budget.</p>
<p>It was also agreed that, funds permitting, a second course should be organised 
  and the Networks would be offered the places via Encompass.</p>
<p>Community Sector Capacity Building</p>
<p>A discussion on this topic concluded in agreement that capacity building for 
  the community sector would be a responsibility that Encompass will undertake 
  to fulfil in the future and that funds remaining within the CEP budget for this 
  purpose will be transferred to the Encompass bank account, after further consultation 
  with the co-ordinator, and the Commuity Engagement Team, who also currently 
  allocate a share of the funding for community network representatives to addend 
  conferences and events.</p>
<p>Treasurer and Bank Account</p>
<p>A bank account has been opened at the Halifax for Encompass. Carol Watson (vice-chair) 
  and Avis Freeman (treasurer) will take the necessary identification documents 
  for them to become co-signatories to the Wigan branch to complete the formalities.</p>
<p>Billinge History/Heritage Society has indicated that they might be willing 
  to provide an interest free loan to Encompass, if required.</p>
<p>Constitution</p>
<p>Jacquie Mutch, Hilary Brown, Ray Hutchinson and Peter Takaona had indicated 
  prior to the meeting that they agreed with the draft constitution that has been 
  circulated for comment.</p>
<p>It was agreed that the minimum notice for a special general meeting would be 
  10 days, that the constitution needed to be signed off by Friday and that Emma 
  would ask for advice from Louise Haigh (CVS) for an outside opinion on the content 
  of the constitution before Friday 12th October so that, at the LSP Board meeting 
  Monday 15th October, Pam will be able to report that Encompass has a constitution 
  and a bank account.</p>
<p>Encompass and the Community Empowerment Team</p>
<p>The first objective stated in the constitution is: 'To be the steering group 
  for the Community Empowerment Team.' </p>
<p>It was agreed that a meeting would be arranged with the Encompass Executive 
  (and other members who wish to be involved) and the Community Empowerment Team 
  to explore how this objective can be developed and a report on progress will 
  be brought to the next full Encompass meeting.</p>
<p>Communication</p>
<p>It was agreed that these two items should be added to the Communication Policy: 
</p>
<p>Encompass will keep all data relevant to the Community Networks in a safe and 
  secure manner and only use that information appropriately. <br>
  All correspondence concerning Encompass will be sent via the secretary</p>
<p><br>
  LSP Meeting October 15</p>
<p>Encompass has so far had no response to inquires re representation on the LAA 
  Working Group and the Third Sector Liaison Group. The issue of community sector 
  representation was raised at the LSP Board meeting on Friday 7th September and 
  identified as needing to be resolved. This has not occurred. A great many people 
  in the community sector 'know but are not supposed to know' that the Thematic 
  Partnerships will be reduced to four, that a small number of staff from the 
  Community Engagement Team will remain within the Chief Executive's department 
  and the remaining staff will be relocated within other departments. Whilst these 
  fundamental changes to the structure of Community Engagement are being developed, 
  the community sector is being kept in the dark. As things stand, community representatives 
  on the LSP Board, the Thematic Partnerships, the LSP Strategic Management Group 
  and the NRF Working Group are elected at the Borough Wide Community Network 
  AGM, which is to be held 29 November. BWCN, recognising that all Networks should 
  be able to nominate candidates, are having to go ahead with preparations for 
  the AGM, knowing that the proposed changes to the structure could make the election 
  process futile. </p>
<p>It was agreed that Pam Stewart, as Chair of Encompass, will speak to the LSP 
  Board October 15 concerning the concerns of the community sector with regards 
  to community engagement and participation.</p>
<p>Other Business</p>
<p>There is an 'Inspiring Communities' conference at Kendal 9th November, hosted 
  by the Cumbria Community Development Network. Places are available for up to 
  two places per Network. Please cascade this information ASAP.</p>
<p>The PCT would like representatives from Encompass to support the LINKS program 
  - meetings set for 11th &amp; 18th October. Contact CEP for more details.</p>
<p>It was agreed that Ann and David Speers are a unit so there is no problem with 
  Irene Yates also attending meetings.</p>
<p>Carol Watson is a member of the Police Independent Advisory Group and requests 
  any information concerning concern about walking days for an upcoming meeting 
  with Police, Church and Community groups by Friday 12th</p>
<p>A sustainability framework is being developed and it will probably result in 
  the formation of Sustainability Network. It was agreed that Lynn Kay or Janet 
  Withington should be invited to the next meeting to report.</p>
<p>A social enterprise network (PULSE), being developed with guidance from Regenerate 
  Trust, will probably result in the formation of a Social Enterprise Network. 
  It was agreed that Stephen Kearney and Julia Olson should be invited to the 
  next meeting to report.</p>
<p>Next meeting Monday 5th November 10 am Bluecoat School. <br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
