<html>
<head>
<title>Untitled Document</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
</head>

<body bgcolor="#FFFFFF" text="#000000">
Notes of Encompass meeting held at Ince Community Centre Manchester Road Ince 
Wigan 8th May 2008
<p>Present: Pam Stewart, Clare Brennan, Irene Yates, Avis Freeman, Marion Andrews<br>
  In attendance: Emma Scott, Andrew Heathman</p>
<p>Apologies: Shafa Ullah, David Wilson, Joe Taylor.</p>
<p>It was noted that Mo Burgess as Voluntary Sector Network representative had 
  not attended a meeting for over 12 months and it was suggested that a letter 
  be sent to ask the intention of Mo in relation to VSN representation on Encompass. 
  Emma added that she had tried to ask Groundwork representatives, which had been 
  intermittent in the past.</p>
<p>Minutes of the last meeting:<br>
  Minutes of the meeting dated 7th April 2008 were confirmed as correct.</p>
<p>Matters arising - Role of Network Representatives - it was felt that Encompass 
  has to be seen to be professional and that the guidance for new members/representatives 
  was a positive step. NOS abbreviation needs to be clarified and it was suggested 
  that the ladder of participation was included to advise new members that there 
  could be a 'career' path if they so desired to progress towards representing 
  the community at different levels.</p>
<p>Future funding - there is four months funding left of the additional sum that 
  was allocated at the WBP meeting. Douglas Valley have &pound;65, 000 in the 
  small grant pot. Awards for All can offer &pound;10,000 (with no return within 
  2 years). Pam suggested that Encompass might be more successful in applying 
  for smaller sums and that a sub-group be established to take this forward. Irene, 
  Carol and Marion will arrange a meeting. Wigan Hope - the meal was a successful 
  event and there is a concert at the JJB stadium tonight.</p>
<p>A discussion took place relating to the Vision 2026 - very few mum's have come 
  forward to be interviewed. It was noted that no approach had been made to Douglas 
  Valley Community Partnership although they have 18 centres in the borough. The 
  Networks through Encompass have not been approached to assist, however CEP has 
  been asked to help and this will be included as the main agenda point on the 
  next All Networks meeting on 28th May. N.B. facilitators will be needed - Encompass 
  members are to suggest good facilitators from their networks for the part when 
  participants will be split into groups.</p>
<p>Leigh Multicultural Event - Pam has now been invited on to the steering group. 
  Public Liability insurance is still a concern and is preventing some organisations 
  taking part in events. Pam had already raised this at the last WBP meeting. 
  The Multicultural Event is wider than the Leigh MELA incorporating food, costumes 
  and dance, and will be held at Leigh Town Hall Square on Saturday 26th July 
  2008 10 - 4pm. The WOW Festival will be held on 3rd August 2008.</p>
<p>Community Empowerment Programme update - the CEP team have now received a written 
  contract and will email this to members of Encompass. Wigan Council is attempting 
  to reach Equality Standards level 3 and Emma is preparing a list of voluntary 
  organisations that support the 3rd Sector in relation to the 7 social identities. 
  Race and faith mapping is to be undertaken across the borough including nationality 
  and faith groups, local takeaways and corner shops. World In Wigan members have 
  agreed to help interview the owners of the businesses. Pam also agreed to survey 
  takeaways in Westleigh </p>
<p>'Class' (in relation to the 7 social identities) has not yet been defined. 
  It was suggested that the central government definition for Class was investigated 
  - if BWCN fits the definition then why spend more money in setting up another 
  network? Wigan Council are adamant that funding will not be available for the 
  BWCN, Heritage and ETNA networks (as these networks do not fit into the 7 social 
  identity model - and these networks will need to apply for independent funding 
  if they are to continue.</p>
<p>A lengthy discussion took place and the following proposal (which mirrors the 
  refreshed architecture of the LSP) was put forward by members of Encompass. 
  Basically the role of Encompass would be to provide a summary of the networks 
  at a strategic level. The All Networks (could be known as Community Cohesion) 
  meetings would gather information from all of the various networks and feed 
  this into Encompass. The BWCN, Heritage and ETNA networks will need to arrange 
  an emergency meeting to discuss this proposal and decide upon the future of 
  the individual networks. The Disability Forum will bring this proposal to the 
  fore of their next meeting 20th May.</p>
<p>A cheque for &pound;4500 (dated 17/4/08 signed by CVS) was handed to Avis Freeman 
  representing the balance of the CEP programme.</p>
<p>Wigan Voices website will be minimised to 1 page and Encompass should take 
  control of this. The discussion forum is a valuable tool that is underused. 
  Irene advised on an annual licence fee to cover Agenda X which can provide an 
  electronic calendar for all members. Irene will forward the link to Emma for 
  her perusal, as funding will need to be secured to implement this - should all 
  parties/networks agree.</p>
<p>Update from Networks<br>
  Disability Forum AGM - 10 committee members have volunteered, although at present 
  no one has volunteered for specific roles. A letter will be sent to member to 
  encourage more members to join the committee and to take up essential roles. 
  <br>
  Avis gave a detailed update on the proposals for the rebuilding of schools in 
  the Leigh Area, which means that the old Leigh Grammar School is under threat 
  of being demolished, this was of concern to both ETNA &amp; Heritage network 
  members.</p>
<p>Adult Services have postponed several meetings with the Over 50's to discuss 
  finances. CVS is assisting Over 50s Forum with their business planning work.</p>
<p>Date of Next Meeting<br>
  The next meeting will be held on the 16th June 2008 at Ince Community Centre 
  <br>
  10am - 12noon - please do your best to attend.<br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
