<html>
<head>
<title>Untitled Document</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
</head>

<body bgcolor="#FFFFFF" text="#000000">
8th December 2004 , Bedford High School Conference Centre 
<p></p>
<p>Present: Geoff Roberts (Over 50s Forum), Janet Hughes (Wigan &amp; Leigh Disability 
  Forum), Pam Stewart (Borough Wide Community Network), Rev Tim Hall (Borough 
  Wide Faith Network), Shafa Ullah (Black &amp; Minority Ethnic Network) </p>
<p>Apologies: Maureen Burgess (Voluntary Sector Network), R Ward and M Neild (Borough 
  Wide Youth Council), Sian Jay (Township Programme Manager) </p>
<p>In attendance: Simon Dale (Wigan Council), Nick Trotter (Wigan &amp; Leigh 
  Council for Voluntary Service), Katy Crowson ( Wigan &amp; Leigh Community Empowerment 
  Programme) </p>
<p>1). Welcome to the first meeting</p>
<p>2). Ice breaker: Everyone had the opportunity to introduce themselves.</p>
<p>Aims for the meeting </p>
<p>To begin to get to know each other </p>
<p>To gain an understanding of how we got here </p>
<p>To bring everyone up to date with progress so far </p>
<p>To set a date for a next meeting </p>
<p></p>
<p>3). How did we get here: The work of the Community Empowerment Programme so 
  far has revolved around setting up new or supporting existing Networks across 
  the Borough. The idea behind the Networks is to give different sectors of the 
  community a voice through to local decision making structures. The Programme 
  has been running for 3 years.</p>
<p>In 2003, the Office for the Deputy Prime Minister decided that instead of continuing 
  with existing monitoring / financial structures it would establish new ones. 
  The management of the Community Empowerment Programme, Community Chest and Learning 
  and Skills pots of money should move into the hands of the Networks that had 
  been created. In the past money had been given to Wigan &amp; Leigh CVS for 
  the Community Empowerment Programme and to Douglas Valley to deliver Community 
  Chest and Learning &amp; Skills grants - now all this money will be pulled together 
  into one pot and this new group will help to decide the amount of money allocated 
  to these specific areas of work.</p>
<p>This is the first meeting of this new body locally and supersedes the pervious 
  Steering Group. Simon, Nick and Sian were all involved in the previous group, 
  when drawing up the terms of reference it was felt links to the Council, Wigan 
  &amp; Leigh CVS as the Responsible Body and the Township Programme would still 
  be crucial so these people have now joined the new group. The role of officers 
  will be to advise and help formulate decisions as well as being on hand to explain 
  any paperwork which is received from government (if needed).</p>
<p>The Responsible Body will have control over day to day issues and will have 
  a role in ensuring the team meets the criteria contained within the delivery 
  plan. This new group will be responsible for checking work progresses against 
  the delivery plan and for initially allocating pots of money to different objectives. 
  The Responsible Body also has to make sure that the programme runs according 
  to government guidance.</p>
<p>Lots of good work has already been done and it is about building on that. People 
  have got involved and it is now time to start turning this into actions on the 
  ground.</p>
<p>4). Terms of reference: The terms of reference were drawn up by a small group 
  of people, which included representatives from the Faith and Community Networks. 
  The terms then went to all seven Networks who were allocated a place for consultation. 
  All Networks agreed to the terms.</p>
<p>There is no name because no one came up with one!! There was some discussion 
  around what it should be - something which represents the purpose of the group, 
  something which links it to Wigan Borough Partnership, does not have to include 
  the words Single Programme as this can added when needed.</p>
<p>Two suggestions for amendments had come back from consultation:</p>
<p>a). Substitutes - it was felt that in exceptional circumstances substitutes 
  should be able to attend to ensure Networks were consistently represented. After 
  a debate it was agreed that the following be added to the terms of reference 
  'A designated substitute can attend in exceptional circumstances and should 
  be kept continually updated about the work of the group'</p>
<p>b). 2 places for Youth Council - this group would feel more comfortable if 
  they were able to send two representatives who could then support each other 
  at the meeting. All agreed that this be added to the terms, but that it be for 
  a 12 month period, after which the situation should be reviewed. </p>
<p>HOMEWORK / ACTION!! Everyone to think about a name and bring suggestions to 
  the next meeting where it will be added to terms of reference which can then 
  be signed off.</p>
<p>All to go back to Networks and sort out a designated substitute.</p>
<p>5). Delivery Plan: Everyone was given a copy of the current delivery plan - 
  this is the delivery plan for the Community Empowerment Programme only and does 
  not include references to Community Chest or Learning &amp; Skills grants. One 
  of the first jobs of the new group will be to pull together a new delivery plan 
  - deadline is February 2005 and this will need to include references to the 
  grants. There are also broad headings for work that has to be done, also need 
  to remember the links with Wigan Borough Partnership. There will be regular 
  reports on progress against the delivery plan and the group needs to ask questions.</p>
<p>The group will not be making decisions about grants being given out but will 
  be able to give more direction to Douglas Valley who will be the delivery agent 
  for this work.</p>
<p>Money is given every quarter from Government Office. Will need to negotiate 
  how payments to Douglas Valley work to make sure they get paid on time.</p>
<p>It will be useful for the group to get answers to the following questions - 
  what is demand for grants like? What is the capacity for groups to deliver projects? 
  What is the amount requested in relation to turnover? New database does allow 
  us to pull off information like geographical areas accessing the most funding, 
  can find out different trends. There are issues around development support for 
  groups wishing to apply for grants. The Council currently allocates &pound;2 
  million to the sector per year in grant aid. Will be difficult to ascertain 
  information on the relationship between local grants and regional/ national 
  grants, Yorkshire has been trying to gather this information for 3 years and 
  has still not got any conclusions. </p>
<p>A quick update on progress so far was given. </p>
<p>Borough Wide Community Network - most developed of all Networks, elected Working 
  Committee, elected representatives on the Board, Operations Group (which encompasses 
  Heads of Departments and CVS), and two people on almost all of the 7 thematic 
  partnerships, second AGM, joint meeting with Youth Council and speed networking 
  session with Faith, Voluntary and BME Networks, meetings around health, foundation 
  hospitals, protocols, organising a community conference for January 2005. </p>
<p>Faith Network - Borough Wide group meets every three months, last meeting looked 
  at Children, Young People and their Families, next meeting looking at what the 
  faith communities can do to help newly arrived asylum seekers, also set up local 
  Faith Networks where there was not already an active Churches Together type 
  organisation. Agreed terms of reference and elected a new representative onto 
  the Board. </p>
<p>BME Network - currently reviewing membership and structures, about to adopt 
  a constitution, acquired office space in Wigan and Leigh with the idea of offering 
  times when people can drop in on a regular basis to share concerns, issues and 
  needs so this can be fed into structures. Will be arranging open sessions at 
  new venues and will be bringing everyone up-to-date with progress at the Partnership 
  Convention. </p>
<p>Voluntary Sector Network - meets bi-monthly, recent meeting looked at Children, 
  Young People and their Families, decided to set up a cross network discussion 
  group around this subject area. </p>
<p>Over 50s Forum - continues to do some excellent work, exchange trip to Angers 
  to look at support for Over 50s there, as a result they are looking to develop 
  a charter, do regular road shows around the Borough using the Township model 
  - idea is to break down barriers between young and old, always involve local 
  schools in the event. </p>
<p>Borough Wide Youth Council - members attended Board meeting, joint session 
  with Community Network, starting to visit Township Youth Councils to try to 
  inspire them to send representatives to Borough Wide meetings, two Members of 
  Youth Parliament and one deputy who attend national sittings for four days every 
  year. </p>
<p>Wigan and Leigh Disability Forum - group in existence prior to Community Empowerment, 
  own structures for getting things done, hoping to arrange arts event in 2005, 
  looking at beginning to get disability on the agenda of the Borough, some members 
  attended Board meeting as observers to see if that would be the right place 
  for them to begin to have an influence.</p>
<p>ACTIONS - CEP team to get copies of Douglas Valley delivery plan and to get 
  information on trends so that this can be taken into account when writing the 
  delivery plan. </p>
<p>6). Financial Report: A copy of the current budget was given out. Columns to 
  look at are Year 2003-04, gives estimated spent, actual spend to 31 st October 
  2004 and then estimated spend for the rest of the year. Shows how much spent 
  against a number of different headings. For the year 2003-2004 we under spent 
  by roundabout &pound;20,000 unfortunately this was has to be paid back to government, 
  &pound;7,500 that should have appeared in that financial year did not actually 
  get sorted in time so has actually gone out of this financial year.</p>
<p>The column for 2004-2005 had to be completed for the Finance Officer at CVS; 
  these figures will be amended in relation to how this new group wants money 
  to be allocated, but had to be completed by end of December 2004. There are 
  certain staff commitments until 2006 which will have to remain. </p>
<p>7). Local Area Agreements: Wigan has achieved pilot status as a Local Area 
  Agreement authority. There are 21 areas across the country which have been selected 
  and will come onto stream one year earlier than others. The aim is to improve 
  the efficiency of the relationship between the local authority and government. 
  The voluntary and community sectors are seen to play a key role in this, this 
  includes BME communities and the faith sector (see paragraphs 12 and 13 of 'Draft 
  Local Area Agreements: Advice Note 1').</p>
<p>Targets for local authorities are set by central government, so the idea is 
  that authorities will be asked to stretch their targets and if they achieve 
  them they will get extra money from government. They will be given one pot of 
  money rather than lots of smaller pots, current funding for the Community Empowerment 
  Programme, Community Chest and Learning &amp; Skills will form part of this 
  pot of money. The Local Strategic Partnership, known here as Wigan Borough Partnership 
  will then decide on how money spent.</p>
<p><br>
  Issue - no more information as yet, have to wait and see what develops and deal 
  with it as and when, but Network representatives need to be briefed on this 
  fact so that if it comes up at a meeting, (most likely to be at the Board), 
  they know to push for control of the money to be kept within the community / 
  voluntary sector. Lots of objections to the inclusion of this funding in the 
  big pot have been raised nationally so it is just a case of waiting for more 
  information.</p>
<p>At a recent Urban Forum conference it was made clear that this will provide 
  voluntary and community sector with more influence as local government will 
  have to show how it consults with people. (Urban Forum is a national support 
  body for those linked to community involvement in Local Strategic Partnerships).</p>
<p>8). Over 50s Forum: A request for a further grant has been made. This work 
  was funded by the Community Empowerment Programme at the outset because it was 
  a forum already in existence that met some of the requirements of the Programme 
  as a whole and meant that this work could really be developed. There is a part 
  time post involved which revolves around providing administrative support to 
  the Over 50s Forum. The core grant provided is in the region of &pound;10,500 
  per year, no request has been made for any increase in this amount.</p>
<p>There was some discussion around the lack of information provided on which 
  to make a decision, but it was felt that there was an anomaly for one Forum 
  to get direct funding for administrative support when no other Network received 
  this.</p>
<p>Geoff declared a conflict of interest as the representative for the Forum and 
  left the room whilst a final decision was made.</p>
<p>After further debate all agreed that support should be provided but that the 
  post should come within the Community Empowerment Programme team and be a shared 
  resource for other networks too. This idea was agreed by all voting members 
  present, no abstentions. </p>
<p>ACTION - Katy and Nick to meet with the Over 50s Forum to sound out the idea 
  of incorporating the post within the Community Empowerment Programme team.</p>
<p>9). Dates for the next 6 months: Wednesday 12 th January 2005 from 4.30pm, 
  then Monday 14 th February 2005 from 12noon-5pm - this session will be about 
  writing the delivery plan and may finish earlier depending on progress. </p>
<p>ACTION - Rest of dates to be set at next meeting. </p>
<p>10). Any Other Business: Network representatives attending these meetings will 
  be eligible to claim back mileage if attending in a voluntary capacity or if 
  they can not do so through their own organisation. Mileage claim forms were 
  made available.</p>
<p>11). Date and Time of Next Meeting: Wednesday 12 th January 2005 from 4.30pm-6.30pm 
  at Today's Community Church , Wigan . Tea, coffee and sandwiches will be provided!! 
  To cover training on how to complete a delivery plan.<br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
