<html>
<head>
<title>Meeting minutes WIGAN-EHN</title>
<meta charset="utf-8">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
</head>

<body>
Minutes of Encompass meeting held at The Grange Community Centre Marus Bridge 
9/10/2008.
<p>Present: Pam Stewart &amp; Carol Watson (BWCN), Ed Ellis (Youth), Khaled Amini 
  (BME), Irene Yates (Disability), Clare Brennan (Over 50's), Joe Taylor (Heritage)</p>
<p>Apologies: Marion Andrews (BWCN), Ray Hutchinson &amp; Hilary Young (Faith), 
  John Gurhy (Disability) </p>
<p>Minutes of the last meeting: The Minutes of the last meeting 18th August 2008 
  were confirmed as correct. </p>
<p>Matters arising: None.</p>
<p>The next Ascend meeting:</p>
<p>Henceforth, Ascend meetings will be funded and facilitated by Encompass. It 
  is important that all Ascend members are involved in deciding the future course 
  of events for these meetings, given that the Ascend Charter opens up these meetings 
  to all residents of the Borough, including Councillors. It was decided that 
  time is required to arrange the next meeting appropriately and that Pam Stewart 
  will investigate the possibility of holding the event at the Town Hall on the 
  27th November.</p>
<p>Action: The chair will email Ascend and Encompass members regarding the next 
  Ascend meeting.</p>
<p>Clare Brennan suggested that all inquires regarding Encompass business by outside 
  agencies should be referred to the chair. The meeting agreed.</p>
<p>How do we deal with the proposed interim LSP funding:</p>
<p>A proposition that the LSP provide &pound;20,000 to Encompass to cover ongoing 
  running costs for the Community Networks until the end of this financial year 
  was put to Encompass by Simon dale and Ann Roberts, Policy Officer - Partnership/Voluntary 
  Sector Policy and Planning Team, on Friday 3rd October, with terms and conditions 
  attached. This proposition was discussed at length.</p>
<p>Clare Brennan pointed out that the eligible costs outlined mean that Over 50's 
  would be able to receive virtually no support. They have been faced with a 400% 
  increase in officer rent and unless alternative office space is secured their 
  network will struggle to survive, however, she was not advocating for a change 
  in the criteria to accommodate the Over 50's.</p>
<p>It was pointed out that the stipulation that training costs are only acceptable 
  if CVS don't provide the necessary courses was detrimental. Instances of CVS 
  charging community groups for inadequate training were sited. CVS courses that 
  provide 'attendance certificates' rather than an accreditation are not considered 
  to be optimum. A general dissatisfaction with CVS training was expressed.</p>
<p>Pam Stewart suggested that we clarify if any under spend will have to be returned 
  at the end of six months and suggested we contact the Participatory Budgeting 
  Unit for further advise.</p>
<p>Action: Ed Ellis will contact the Participatory Budgeting Unit and report back.<br>
  Upcoming meetings: </p>
<p>Tomorrow (Friday 10th October) at 1.30, Joe Taylor will meet those officers 
  dealing with Tenants Participation at Wigan &amp; Leigh Housing to determine 
  how the Community Networks and W&amp;LH might work together in partnership.</p>
<p>Tomorrow (Friday 10th October) at 3.00, the community representatives to the 
  LSP will meet with Planning and Policy officers to consider further the future 
  role of the Community Networks</p>
<p>November 3rd at 9.30 community representatives will meet with Katherine Fairclough, 
  the officer in charge of developing the Township Forums to explore methods of 
  working </p>
<p>Any other business:</p>
<p>Dave Hanna, development officer for Community North West, met with Joe and 
  Pam Tuesday 7th to investigate the possibility organising a conference in Wigan 
  for the North West Lancashire sometime next year.</p>
<p><br>
  Date of Next Meeting: Tuesday 11th November 7 pm at the Grange Community Centre.</p>
<p><br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
